LAGOS  – In a bid to ensure growth in the tourism sector in Ghana and attract more tourists, its gov­ernment has been advised to reduce the current high levies imposed on tourism investors in the country. The government was also told to lead tourism develop­ment growth in the West African country by taking the sector as one of its priorities. Mr. Gerard Schraven, Gen­eral Manager, The Royal Senchi Hotel and Resort in Akosombo, Ghana, stated this yesterday during an interaction with the media. Schraven explained that Gha­na, like most African countries, was yet to take tourism as one of the pivotal sectors to foster economic growth in the system, stressing that through the sector, other areas of the economy are developed. He, however, lauded the Gha­naian Government for giving the resort the necessary exposures and approvals, stressing that the resort remained the only one to host cabinet meetings of Ghana. The General Manager fur­ther stated that the plan of the management was to go green and contribute its quota to the reduction of carbon emission in the world. He said: “This is a four-star hotel and this facility has been open for about 10 years now. Presently, we have 84 rooms; 74 standards, nine suites and one presidential suite for our clients. We are seated on 33 acres of land and 80 per cent of our guests are corporate organisations and groups. “We want to push out the leisure market. Currently, we have 152 staff and one remark­able thing is that 70 per cent of our current staff have been with us in the last 10 years when we started. We are currently Gha­na’s leading hotels for 2022 and we have been nominated again for the 2023 edition. The competi­tion is not there yet, but we want to keep being at the top.” POLL Schraven informed that parts of the five years plan of the man­agement were to create a canopy walkway, construct an addition­al swimming pool at the Dua Clubhouse area, adding that by 2024, it hoped to have improved hugely on its green revolution initiative.