LAGOS  – The 17B, Adekunbi Crescent headquarters of the Bishop Ajose Ministries International in lkeja, Lagos, on Sunday, April 23, 2023 hosted friends and associates of the Ajose family as well as several Christian leaders. The event was the official inauguration of the late Pastor Matthias Kehnde Ajose Memorial Foundation by his twin brother, Bishop Dr. Theophilus Taiwo Ajose. Pastor Kehinde died on April 23, 2021. The Foundation was officially inaugurated by His Lordship, Bishop Stephen Adegbite, Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State. He was ably supported by many others, including Bishop Stephen Ogedengbe; Rev. Toyin Kehinde, the Zonal Secretary of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), At the inauguration, and in according to the aims and objectives of the Foundation, several widows were presented with gifts, including clothes and money to mark the take-off. Speaking at the occasion, the Chief Host, Bishop Ajose, the Director, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG) of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), said that Pastor Kehinde’s death is still like a dream and the most unbelievable occurrence in his life, even as a believer. He stressed that it is indeed difficult for him to come to terms with the fact that his twin brother, Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose, popularly called Pastor Kenny, is no longer with the family in this physical world of matter. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He stated: “However, the witness of the Holy Spirit in our hearts and the infallible Word of the Living God give us the assurance that he is very much alive with the Lord, though he is no longer physically with us. POLL “The ideals, divine vision, selfless humanitarian services and the service to the Lord and His kingdom, which Pastor Kenny lived on earth bring about lasting memories which are hard to ignore, memories of giving of himself to his friends and others; memories and good works which have become worthy of emulation by friends and foes alike.” Bishop Ajose maintained that based on what Pastor Kenny stood for, he resolved to set up a foundation in the name of his late twin brother. Explaining the aims and objectives of the Foundation meant for the less privileged, Bishop Ajose stated: “Pastor Kenny truly served his generation and has joined the spirits of just men made perfect at the bosom of the Lord. His spirit is encouraging us to also live for the pure service of God and humanity by emulating the kingdom examples Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose left with us. Hence, a memorial foundation, called Pastor Matthias Kehinde Ajose Memorial Foundation is hereby established in his honour and memory to raise funds to support the widows and orphanages as well as his immediate family.” Apart from these, he stated that the Foundation will also be involved in developing and executing project to support Christian evangelism, Churches and the expansion of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It will also garner support for ministers and Churches of the gospel of Jesus Christ as well as organising events, seminars and conferences in his memory. Considering the position of Bishop Taiwo Ajose in Church leadership, it was not a surprise that the event attracted the presence of several ministers of the gospel, many who stormed the venue physically and thousands who participated by Zoom. The Foundation shall partner with orphanages, homes for the elderly and the less privileged in the society so as to be a blessing to them and the community in furtherance of the ideals and disposition of Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose while he was on this earth. In his conclusion, Bishop Ajose, on behalf of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation and the entire family of Ajose Royal Family, extended his hands of fellowship to all for their material, financial and moral supports for the take-off of Foundation. He said: “We hereby express our profound appreciation for the supports from the Lagos State government, and the first family, the chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State, Bishop Dr. Stephen Adegbite; the Zion City of the Lord Ministries and the Lead Pastor, Pastor Oluwaseun Adeleke, the family and children of our father, Apostle Dr. Alexander Bamgbola of blessed memory, family and friends. “On behalf of his wife, Pastor Mrs. Oluwafunmilayo Ajose and daughter, Princess Hadassah Ajose; the entire Ajose Royal Family and the entire Body of Christ, I appreciate you all for finding the time to attend and be a blessing to this memorial service. Quoting Proverbs 10:7, Bishop Ajose, Chairman, Board of Trustees, stressed that the late Pastor Kehinde will be celebrated yearly, adding, “The memory of the just is blessed.” Speaking exclusively with Sunday Independent after the event, which was beamed all over the world by Zoom, Bishop Ajose informed that the Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose Memorial Foundation was named after Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose, his twin brother, who passed on to glory to be with the Lord on April 23, 2021. According to him, “Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose, popularly known as Pastor Kenny, was born a prince on May 31, 1965 into the Jegen Royal Ruling House (paternal) and Wawu Royal Ruling House (maternal) in the ancient Badagry Kingdom, where Christianity was first preached as a religion in Nigeria. “He got married in the year 2000 to Mrs Oluwafunmilayo Ajose and was blessed with a daughter, Princess Hadassah Ajose, both of them living in the United Kingdom. “In 1971, Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose started his elementary education at the first Primary School in Nigeria, St. Thomas’ Anglican Nursery and Primary School and in 1977; he started his high school education at the First High School in Badagry, now called Badagry Grammar School, established in 1925 (still there till date).” Bishop Ajose informed that it was at Badagry Grammar School that Pastor Kenny gave his life to Jesus Christ in 1978 at 13, when he joined the Scripture Union under Brother Patrick Alabi, then the Bible Religious Knowledge (BRK) teacher. According to him, “He, Pastor Kenny participated in many evangelism project and crusades since then. In 1982, he enrolled for his Ordinary National Diploma (OND) course in Drug and Chemical Technology at the Lagos State College of Science and Technology, now Lagos State University of Science and Technology. “In 1986, he proceeded for his Higher National Diploma (HND) at the same school in Science Laboratory Technology with specialisation in Biochemistry. “He was a student unionist and was a former President of the National Union of Lagos State Students (NULASS) branch of the university. “He was awarded an honorary doctorate degree of Doctor of Divinity (DD) by the World Christianship Ministries, USA, in 2018. He later joined the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), where he also attended a lot of Theological Post-Graduate Courses and training. “He was a member of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), London, United Kingdom (Victory House) under the leadership of Pastor Leke Sanusi and the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Gateway Parish, Lagos Province 25, under Pastor Debo Akande (PICP), Lagos Nigeria, till he went to be with the Lord. “Pastor Dr. Matthias Kehinde Ajose Memorial Foundation was established to immortalise the true life in Christ he lived for. He was an ardent soul winner for Christ and a generous giver. He was a man of prayer and an intercessor per excellence.”