The Delta State Command in a bid to rid Warri, Ugheli and the environs of kidnappers terror­ising the area over a long time has neutralised one suspect and arrested five others. The Deputy Commission­er of Police, Operations, DCP Johnson Adenola, had in March directed key officers in the Command to map out strategies to nip the activities of kidnappers in the bud. He directed tactical com­manders to proceed to Ughelli and Warri along with their men to reinforce the divisions. The effort paid off when the DPO ‘B’ Division, Warri, SP Bolarinwa Alabi, on 4/5/2023 at about 0013 hours, received a distress call that some armed robbers snatched black Lexus cars along Warri-Sapele road and had been robbing inno­cent citizens using the said car. The DPO swiftly mobilised and led a striking force team of the Division trailed the hoodlums, and caught up with them. The hoodlums upon sight­ing the police exchanged firing with the team. The hoodlums, numbering about four, escaped into the bush while firing at the police but one of them was hit and fatally wounded. The injured suspect gave up the ghost while receiving treat­ment. One locally made cut-to-size double barrel gun with two live cartridges, one suspected stolen vehicle with reg. no PYN 595 PW were recovered. In another development, on 1/5/2023, at about 2200 hours, as a proactive measure, the DPO Ughelli Division led po­lice operatives to patrol along Ughelli/Asaba road, during which, they intercepted one Odogun Ifeanyi ‘m’ 36yrs and one other suspect and when the search was conducted on them, one locally made single barrel gun with four live car­tridges, one jack knife were recovered.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On the same date, the DPO and his men also arrested one Ediri Omote ‘m’ age 45 years, and two others, and one local­ly made single barrel gun with nine expended cartridges were recovered from them. POLL The DCP Operations assured Deltans that the command would leave no stone unturned in the fight against crime and criminal­ity while appealing to Delt­ans to help the command in the area of information. “The Police rely heavily on information from the public, and it is expected that any sus­picious persons or movements will be promptly reported to the police,” he said. According to DCP Edafe, the following dedicated phone lines are available to the pub­lic to reach the command, as a quick response contact for any complaint or distress situation during the election exercise: CONTROL ROOM NUM­BERS: 1. 08036684974 2. 08125958005 3. 09053872287.