YENAGOA – Scores of prominent Nigerian leaders, on Saturday, bid fare­well to Pa Abraham Joseph Mi­chael (AJM) Diri, father of the Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, at Sampou commu­nity in Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area of the state. The attendees included a cross-section of leaders, name­ly Vice President Yemi Osinba­jo, and his wife, Dolapo, former Presidents, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Dr Goodluck Jon­athan alongside his wife, Dame Patience, ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar and National Chairman of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP), Dr Iyorchia Ayu as well as the Labour Party presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi. State governors and gover­nors-elect at the funeral service were Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, (Governors of Delta), Senator Ademola Adeleke (Osun), God­win Obaseki (Edo) and wife, Betty, Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Darius Ishiaku (Taraba). The governors-elect of Akwa Ibom, Plateau, Taraba and Niger states were also present. Chief Obasanjo, in his good­will message delivered by Vice President Osinbajo, described Pa Diri as an exemplary teacher, a Lay Reader,m and community leader, who gave his children proper upbringing. According to him, “We are here to celebrate the life and times of Pa Diri. The array of personalities here is an indica­tion that Pa Diri brought up and nurtured the aspirations of so many children.” The former Nigerian leader noted that the late Diri’s re­ward as a teacher came not just through his son, Senator Diri, but attracted so many notable Nigerians to Sampou to cele­brate a humble teacher. “He could not have imagined that an array of personalities would come here to honour him. According to the book of Prov­erbs 14:23, “in all labour, there is profit.” POLL Former President Jonathan, in his remarks, said he was with the bereaved Diri family in ap­preciating Obasanjo, Osinbajo and all those who came to cele­brate and honour the family and the people of the state. He recalled that Pa Diri passed on a day that the present administration in the state was marking its third anniversary and prayed God to strengthen Diri and his family. Also, former Vice President Atiku said: “There is a special relationship between me and the people of Bayelsa State. l am with you as a family and that is why l am physically here.” The PDP presidential candi­date noted that he attended the funeral ceremonies of former governor of the state, Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha in Amassoma, former Governor Seriake Dickson’s mother at Toru-Orua and that of Diri’s father. Responding, Senator Diri said he and his family as well as the entire state were humbled by the large turnout of high profile dig­nitaries in his community to bid his father farewell. “We are indeed overwhelmed. There can be no love more than that. I would not have thought even in the wildest of my imag­inations that there would be a large number of high profile Nigerians here to celebrate my father.” Diri, who described his father as a disciplinarian, noted that he impacted positively on all who crossed his path and they all shared his positive attributes. Other dignitaries who graced the event were one-time Bayel­sa military administrator, Navy Capt. Caleb Olubolade (rtd), wife of former governor, Mrs Margaret Alamieyeseigha, Managing Director and Coun­try Chair of Shell Petroleum Development Company, Mr Osagie Okunbor, Interim Ad­ministrator, Presidential Am­nesty Programme, Brig. Gen. Barry Ndiomu (retd), Senators Uche Ekwunife and Ben Mur­ray-Bruce as well as the PDP governorship candidate in Kogi State, Senator Dino Melaye.