Today is Pentecost Sunday! We are celebrating the Outpouring of the Holy Spirit. We are celebrating the birthday of the Church and the gift of the Holy Spirit. Acts 2:1-4 presents a clear picture of what happened on Pentecost day. “When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place.” Before His Ascension Jesus actually commanded His disciples not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the Promise of the Father: “John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.” In obedience the Apostles were together on Pentecost day. Pentecost is meant to bring God’s children! While they were praying together, “sud¬denly a sound came from heaven like the rush of a mighty wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.” This sound was not an ordinary sound. Acts 16:26 describes it as an earthquake: “Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; immediately all the doors were opened and everyone’s chains were loosed.” I release this anointing sound upon your foundation! I break loose every chain of bondage and captivity In Jesus name! After the sound, “there appeared to them tongues as of fire. It distributed and rested on each one of them.” John the Baptist told His fellow Jews in Matthew 3:11 “He who is coming after me is mightier than I… He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.” This is exactly what John the Baptist meant by the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Child of God, I release the tongues of Fire upon you! Let this Fire consume all the ugly things in your life! As soon as they received the Fire “they were all filled with the Holy Spirit” Child of God, be filled with the Holy Spirit! I release the Power of the Holy Spirit upon you! Receive the Gifts of the Holy Spirit! Receive the Anointing of the Holy Spirit. And be filled with the fruits of the Holy Spirit! When they received the Holy Spirit, they “began to speak in other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.” This is exactly what our Lord Jesus Christ promised His disciples in Mark 16:17 when he said, “These signs will follow those who believe: In My name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues.” This promise was fulfilled on Pentecost day! Child of God, right now I loosen your tongue! I restore your Power of Speech! The world will soon hear your voice! Nobody and no kingdom will ever silent you! When the people heard them speaking in their own language they were amazed and wondered, saying, “Are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own native language?” This is exactly what speaking in tongue is all about! There was no confusion; instead there was Order and Understanding. Compare it with the kind of confusion we find today in most Churches in the name of Speaking in tongues. That is why St. Paul told the Corinthians 14:27-28, “If anyone speaks in a tongue, let there be two or at the most three, each in turn, and let one interpret. 28 But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in church, and let him speak to himself and to God.” Through this Pentecost celebration may God restore peace and harmony in the Church! And may God’s name be glorified in Jesus name – Amen! Happy feast of Pentecost from