SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE As Nigerians countdown to May 29, 2023 where the baton of leadership will be passed to the new administration, women have lent their voices in setting agenda for the incoming administration especially in the area of business. Some of the women in chats with Daily Independent, tasked the incoming administration on giving a conducive environment especially for women to thrive in their various businesses. They are optimistic that the incoming administration with proper support will perform and that the nation’s economy will be better for it. Adeola Balogun, founder and Chief Operations Officer at LimLim Foods Production Company Limited while speaking, said the nation needs to learn from Rwanda where businesses can be registered within 30 minutes and that there is need to cut down on multiple taxations. “We are currently killing a lot of businesses with all the hurdles they need to overcome to fully run. Sometimes one asks oneself is it truly worth all this stress and hassles at the end of the day? The Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are the engine room and building blocks for any economy yet they are faced with so many hurdles from local to state to federal government with so many regulations. “As you are getting out from one, another rears its head. You generate your water, power and sometimes roads yet you still end up paying so many levies everywhere you go,” she said. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Modupe Zainab Adelaja CEO of Zyntomax Ventures Limited, a waste recycling company Adelaja, said that she believes that the president-elect has the potential to make significant positive changes in the country, particularly when it comes to ease of doing business. POLL She said that the country has always had tremendous potential as an economic powerhouse in Africa, but that the current state of the business environment is not conducive to the growth and development of business. Adelaja said that the President-elect should prioritize promoting the recycling business in Nigeria. “This can be achieved by introducing policies that incentivize recycling, such as providing tax breaks for companies that use recycled materials or offering grants for companies that invest in recycling infrastructure. “The President-elect should invest in developing recycling infrastructure, such as recycling plants and waste management facilities. “This will help create jobs and reduce environmental pollution, while also creating opportunities for businesses in the recycling sector. He should launch public awareness campaigns to educate the public about the benefits of recycling and encourage them to participate in recycling efforts. This can be done through social media campaigns, public service announcements, and other forms of outreach|. Speaking further, she said by prioritising the ease of doing business and promoting recycling business, the President-elect can help to create a more vibrant and sustainable business environment. Aolat Idowu-Agbelekale, Chief Executive Officer of Arcom Treasures, tasked the incoming administration to provide comprehensive financial support for Entrepreneurs in terms of long term loan at zero percent interest rate, make grants available to them and make huge investment in Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSME) sub sector of the economy. She said that there is the need for the establishment of more clusters for ease of doing business and that campaigns and encouragement of patronage of Made in Nigeria Products should be embraced. Idowu-Agbelekale also advised that entrepreneurs should be engaged in the development and implementation of policies that are related to them. She said the incoming administration should approve coconut as part of the national crop and that it should design and implement policies that will protect the nation’s raw materials and the community in which those raw materials are residing. Speaking further she said all effort should be made to reduce foreign loans and debts. Chi Tola Robert, Chief Executive Officer of Chitola Farms advised the incoming administration to get the right people with passion for development to man the affairs of building a better economy. She said there must be no sentiments, no compensational appointments, no discrimination, but only those with pure growth mindset should be appointed so as to get the desired results. Yetunde Adefolahan Odejayi, Chief Executive of Folahan Fabrics, under Folahan Global Enterprises, said she believes that the incoming president elect is an encyclopedia of governance but at the same time he should get think-tank, eggheads within and outside the shores of the country to study and do research on many of the nation’s mineral resources that are wasting away, how to salvage them and make money from it, that it would go a long way to give the nation beautiful opportunities to earn huge money apart from oil. “Our over-dependence on oil is demonic, because God has blessed Nigeria with a lot of things we don’t have to suffer everybody should be enjoying in this country. In the civilized world, those people we are serving don’t have so much that we have. She said infrastructure is an issue in the country and that there must be fantastic infrastructure plans. “When the roads are not good things cannot work, when electricity is epileptic things cannot work, in overseas electricity can never be epileptic because their weather is so terrible, if you take light in one day you can imagine the number of people that will die. She said the incoming administration should try in its effort to ensure that the Nigeria naira gains more value that before now in the olden days, the exchange rate was one naira to a dollar. “If the incoming administration can bring naira, dollar and pounds sterling and Euro to one, in fact the generation yet unborn will not forget him and he would have established a fantastic legacy for all of us. “There won’t be tribalism, there won’t be chaos, there won’t be war if we are all in the same place to enjoy the system, not that some opportunities are meant for the rich then the downtrodden are suffering God,” she said.