AHMED MUSA The sayings that “the golden fish has no hiding place,” and “hard work pays” are time tested phrases that have underscored the importance of merits and competence in the affairs of men. The same way they frown at any attempt to reward mediocrity and any undeserving honour or recognition. The above assertion may best punctuate the unfolding rise to stardom of two gentlemen and legislators who have become the duo to watch in the build up to the inauguration of the 10th House of Representatives on June 13th and beyond. It is no longer news that Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, representing Zaria Federal Constituency of Kaduna State, and Rt. Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu, representing Bende Federal Constituency of Abia State, have been nominated as preferred candidates for the office of Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively by the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), for the incoming 10th Assembly. Having emerged as preferred candidates ahead of other aspirants, and with the backing of the newly sworn-in President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, it was understandable that questions must be asked as to why the duo caught the eyes of the establishment. Daily Independent National Assembly Correspondent, AHMED MUSA writes to x-ray the reasons for the sudden popularity of Hon. Tajudeen Abbas in the Speakership race and the choice of Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu as his Deputy respectively. The Question of Capacity: It is a known tradition and practice all over the world that presiding officers of parliaments are firsts among equals, and that nobody gets the consideration to be first amongst equals unless he or she stands out in terms of legislative experience (ranking), individual accomplishments through participatory processes of lawmaking in terms of number of bills, motions and contributions to same on the floor of the House and at committee levels. POLL The Duo of Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu have been found suitable for presiding officers’ positions of the 10th Assembly using the above mentioned criteria, as enunciated by the outgoing House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila on May 17, 2023. Gbajabiamila who was before then hounded and disparaged in the media by aggrieved members of the group of seven (G7) told the gathering of members-elect and journalists that his decision to support the candidacy of Tajudeen Abbas for the Speakership position of the incoming 10th House of Representatives was based on his (Abbas) proven capacity to build on legislative gains so far recorded by his (Gbajabiamila’s) administration. Breaking his silence for the first time over allegations that he handpicked the party’s choices for the Speaker and Deputy Speakership positions, Gbajabiamila who attended a meeting of the aspirants with second batch of members-elect at the instance of the Joint Task-10th Assembly, a group of members-elect from across the eight political parties that won seats in the incoming House, said that Abbas was a man with tremendous capacity to lead the parliament. He said: “So, I decided to support a person that’s least close to me of everybody that is running because I saw in him a man with tremendous capacity.” Gbajabiamila cited the unprecedented feats of Hon. Abbas in the number of bills he has sponsored in the last four years, saying: “My point is, he quietly makes his impact, very quietly. When I found out that he had drafted and sponsored 74 bills, I said what kind of human being is this? I mean who does that? To draft and sponsor one bill can take a year, can take two years of thorough research. But to do 74, when you are not a bill factory. Not only did you sponsor 74 bills, you actually had 21 of them signed into law. “I nominated him for the membership of the African Parliamentary Union in 2019. But he got there, and made a name for himself. He’s currently the Treasurer and he got that all by himself. But whenever I attend the conference of the Union in Rwanda, Uganda or Cairo or wherever, rather than the legislators from other countries come around me, I was abandoned. And they were all gravitating and were around, at each time, each conference, they gravitated towards Tajudeen Abbas. “Even the Speakers, and I enquired from the Speaker of Kenya one time and he asked me how long Tajudeen has been in Parliament, I told him. He said because each time his members come home, they keep talking about him. He ran on his own and became the Treasurer of the African Parliament,” outgoing Speaker said. He informed the new members of the demanding nature of lawmaking saying: “Perhaps in another year, many of you who are new will find out the rigours, the process, the legwork, the reaching across the aisle that you have to do to even pass one bill, let alone having 21 as laws of the federation.” “So Tajudeen is somebody I felt we could be proud of as members of the House of Representatives. That’s not to say that others don’t have capacity. But there’s capacity, and there’s capacity.” He also pointed out his preference for Benjamin Kalu as Deputy Speaker, saying that the outgoing spokesman of the 9th House has been nothing but excellent in the manner in which he defended the image of the House, a feat he said was an indication of his capacity to preside. “And in the South East, I found Ben Kalu. Nobody else. And no one who has been a close observer of the proceedings of the last four years can say in all honesty and in good conscience that Ben Kalu does not have the capacity to be the next Deputy Speaker of the House. “Ben Kalu has defended the image of the 9th House in the most impressive manner. You can accuse him of anything but not lack of capacity,” Gbajabiamila stressed. Individual Recognitions (The Order Paper Award): The greatness so far achieved by the duo, was demonstrated recently when Order Paper Nigeria, the country’s premier, private and independent multi-platform Parliament-focused organisation dedicated to reporting, tracking and archiving activities of the Legislature since 2015. The selection process by Order Paper started long before the 2023 elections, and it was based on the performance of the lawmakers. The Top Performers Award, as it is called is meant only for outstanding legislators who have distinguished themselves in the field of lawmaking through the analysis of comparative advantages and impacts on society derivable from their sponsored legislations. Among the one dozen aspirants for the Speakership, only Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu were honored. Tajudeen Abbas sponsored 74 Bills in the 9th House that is from 2019 to 2023, while Benjamin Kalu has 48 bills to his name, coming as the best performing first time legislator in the House of Representatives. None of the other aspirants came close to this. The primary responsibility of every lawmaker is lawmaking, before representation, oversight and constituency outreach. The team of panelists that conducted the selection had Prof. Ladi Hamalai, a former director general of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), as the head with Prof. Ali Ahmad, a former lawmaker and Speaker of Kwara State House of Assembly. Others were Mr. Ikechukwu Uwanna, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani who’s the Country Director of Civil Society and Legislative Advocate Centre (CISLAC), Mr. Amos Dunia, who is a former Council Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (FCT Council), as well as Ms. Kemi Yesufu, an ace journalist and publisher as members, while Oke Epia, former Media Aide to the 7th Assembly Deputy Speaker, Emeka Ihedioha is the convener. Over 150 Members-Elect Storm APC Secretariat: On Tuesday, May 23, 2023, the popularity of the Abbas/Kalu ticket was once again showcased to the public, with the storming of the APC National Secretariat by over 150 members-elect when the duo, led by the leadership of the Joint Task – 10th Assembly paid a thank-you visit to the party’s National Working Committee. The co-chairman of the coalition, Hon. Usman Bello Kumo, from Gombe, who led the delegation that included opposition members-elect informed the party chairman, Abdullahi Adamu that the group working for joint ticket as announced by party has over 250 members in it. This revelation and the sheer crowd that stormed his office forced the octogenarian party chair to demand for individual introductions with a view to clear his disbelief and doubt. It took more than 30 minutes for the personal introduction to be over as more members kept pouring into the office with no space left for even journalists to stand and observe proceedings. His insistence may not be unconnected with the propaganda by the G7 that Tajudeen Abbas doesn’t have any member behind him. He was shocked to see that even members of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Labour Party (LP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) etcetera, were part of the delegation. Endorsement by Conference of United Political Parties (CUPP) Spokesman, 62 Others: The icing on the cake was the endorsement by a highly controversial and courageous political figure, and member-elect, Ikenga Ugo Chinyere who is also the Spokesperson for the Conference of United Political Parties (CUPP). The newly elected lawmaker who just concluded his induction course conveyed his endorsement and those of 62 other opposition members-elect for the Abbas/Kalu ticket in a television broadcast beamed live by three major television networks in Nigeria on May 24th. He has also issued many press statements and made many other television appearances in support of the joint ticket, urging members of the G7 to “drop their ambitions and move over to the winning side.”