ABUJA –  A Coalition of Pro-Democracy Civil Society Groups has kicked against the zoning of the National Assembly Presiding officers ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly by the National Working Committee of All Progressives Congress  ( APC ). The CSOs also threatened to stage a protest and occupy National Assembly saying that animposition of principal officers for the National Assembly before the inauguration is tantamount to a coronation ceremony before the birth of the king, which is not allowed in a democracy. Addressing journalists on Wednesday in Abuja the Convener, Hon. Dauda Yakubu called on Nigerians and the international community to prevail on the All Progressives Congress ( APC ) snd Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila to desist from their anti-democratic moves of imposing leadership of National Assembly. Dauda said ” We are aware that the outgoing Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila is a key factor in this ongoing rape of democracy. ” It is unbecoming that Rt. Hon. Gbajabiamila, who has been one of the greatest beneficiaries of our democracy, could be the one machinating to sabotage the institution that defines him in Nigerian politics. ” Had usurpers dictated the composition of the leadership of the 9th National Assembly he certainly would not occupy the position of the Speaker today and would consequently not have the clout to attempt imposing a leadership on the National Assembly. ” This move becomes even more abhorrent with the realization that Rt. Hon. Gbajabiamila is on his way to becoming part of the executive in one form or the other. He has been tipped as a potential Chief-of-Staff to the incoming president, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” The implication of his coronating the leadership of the National Assembly while assuming an executive position is that he would erase the separation of powers between the executive and the legislature and creation of a rubber-stamp parliament. POLL ” A rubber-stamp National Assembly is precisely what the country does not need currently bearing in mind the extent of reform-oriented legislation and oversight that is needed in the months and years ahead. Nigerians need a parliament that they can hold accountable and not one that answers to a kingmaker in the person of Rt. Hon. Gbajabiamila” The group therefore called on Nigerians including those in the opposition to rise up in defence of Nigeria’s democracy and add their voices to the demand that the members and senators-elect should be allowed the independence granted by the principles of separation of power to decide on the leadership of the 10th National Assembly. ” Finally, we reject the so-called zoning template released by the APC’s NWC as null and of no consequence while urging the senators and members-elect to do the same and vote for parliamentary leaders that will be useful in attaining the promises they made to their electorates” The group noted.