A  few hours after it unveiled its zoning arrangement for the 10th National Assembly, stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the North Central political zone have registered their disagreement with the arrangements, insisting that the zone should be supported to produce the Speaker. Speaking when they met with Senator Abdullahi Adamu at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja on Monday, the group said that they zone contributed more than any zone in the election of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and so should be rewarded with the Speakership of the 10th Assembly. Hon. Salihu Ibrahim who led the stakeholders lamented that the party has not taken North Central into consideration despite its contribution in the last election. Recall that the result published by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) shows that APC won four out of the six states of the zone during the presidential election, namely Kogi, Niger, Benue, and. Kwara States. He said the zone is being marginalized and would therefore stage a peaceful protest to convey their feeling to Nigerians and stakeholders of the party. “We are all here to call the attention of the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, and to congratulate the president elect-in the person of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and to tell him that we the North Central have contributed alot to his success and we want to still tell him that we are being marginalized as regards the sharing formulas of offices of the 10th National Assembly. ” The party has not taken the North Central into consideration and it is outrageous. We are not happy right from the emergence of the APC. We the North Central have contributed largely to the development of APC and up till date we are still on it. “Why is it that the national assembly speaker is something that elected president of the Asiwaju under the watch of Abdullahi Adamu, who is even from the North Central will not wholeheartedly say the North Central should take this and the party should zone it to us because it is with the same consideration of zoning that the APC did and zone presidential flagbearer in the last election to the South and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu emerged. POLL “And we contributed a lot to his success, we contribute largely. What is our position and what is good for us as people of the north Central is the reason we are here to see the APC National Chairman today. “If Abdullahi Adamu under his watch can allow this to happen to us, yes we respect his leadership, his stability in the party but the stability is not paying the North Central well If we have nothing Nationally given to us as regards to the parliament.The 10th Assembly speakership should be zoned to North Central if they can’t give us the Senate President. Recall that the APC in the zoning arrangement released on Monday, zoned two principal positions to the Northwest including to the Speaker and the Deputy Senate President, while ignoring the zone entirely.