There is palpable tension in Jengre town, Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State as women wearing black attaires matched round the streets of the town in protest of the death of Audu Bako, Jengre Youth Leader, who allegedly died after being tortured during detention by officers of the Special Task Force (STF). The women, young and old who carried placards demanding for justice for Audu Bako, went round the town including the palace of the Ogomo Pengana, the Paramount ruler of the chiefdom. Since the news of Audu’s death on Monday 08/05/2023, the serene town of Jengre became charged which led to the deployment of more security personnel to forestall the breakdown of law and order. A close associate of the deceased, reported that, “about a month ago, Audu was returning home in the night on his bike when the vigilante stopped him at the bend leading to his house just before the check point at a place called Road-Block. “Like a joke, the scene led to a serious fight between him and the vigilante to the extent that his brother, Yakson had to buy into the fight. Before the case went to the Jengre Police Division, the vigilante had succeeded in beating him up with bamboo sticks. “It was at the DPO’s office in Jengre that the STF insisted that Audu must be taken to Jos for further scrutiny. Audu did not return to Jengre until after 10days (01/05/2023) in detention and tortured, as he was accused of engaging in a fight with vigilante at odd hours. “Upon his discharge from Jos, he returned home sick that he had to be admitted at SDA Hospital Jengre and later referred to JUTH for further treatment as his case was worsening. “It was in JUTH that he died, which I suspect is as a result of the extreme torture he went through. At the moment, some individuals are calling for an autopsy to be performed on him before he is buried which I am fully in support. Let’s see how the drama unfolds and God help them, if what I am thinking turns out to be true”, Audu’s associate recalled bitterly. POLL Meanwhile, the leadership of Amo Nation have since written a petition to the STF commander demanding the immediate disclosure and investigation of officers who brutalised and manhandled late Mr. Audu Bako. In their own release to the press which was signed by it’s national secretary, Micah Micah Junior, the Amo National Youth Association. (AMONYA) called for calm and restraint in comments and speeches. It said the leadership of Amo at all levels have been on top of the situation seeking for justice. Already, Markus Y Saleh (SAN) and Co, attorneys to the deceased family has petitioned the Commander, Special Task Force, Jos, Plateau State demanding the immediate disclosure and investigation of officers who brutalized and manhandled Mr Audu Bako. It also demanded for a thorough investigation to be conducted immediately towards finding out the men behind the heinous brutality, dehumanization, torture and agonizing treatment of Mr Audu Bako whose only sin/crime, it said, was becoming a youth leader in Jengre. It damanded also, “that the officers at Sector 1 Command of the Special Task Force be made to face the full wrath of the law in the circumstance”, a portion of the petition reads in part. The petition was also copied to the Minister of Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Plateau State Governor, Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence, General Officer Commanding 3rd Armoured Division, Rukuba Barracks Jos, National Human Rights commission, Jos office and the Commissioner of Police, Plateau State Command.