England coach Gareth Southgate has hit out at the Football Association ban handed to striker Ivan Toney and questioned whether the eight-month suspension is the best way to rehabilitate the Brentford striker. Toney was banned by an FA independent regulatory commission from all football-related activity until January 2024 after admitting to 232 breaches of the governing body’s betting rules. Southgate addressed the sanction on Wednesday for the first time and appeared to criticise the terms of Toney’s suspension that prevents him from training until September at the earliest. “What bothers me is we have to look after people,” Southgate said. “He’s injured at the moment – what does he do about getting fit? How do we give him some structure over the next few months that he can develop himself or be a better person by the end of it, or have experiences he might not experience? “I don’t like the idea that we just leave someone that we don’t allow to be a part of the football community. I don’t think that’s how we should work. I don’t think that’s how the best rehabilitation programs would work.” Southgate said he had spoken to Toney, adding he was unaware if that was even allowed, given the player’s current status. “If it isn’t, they can ban me and not add to his,” said Southgate, who insisted Toney’s suspension will have no bearing on whether he will get called up in the future. “I think he’ll have additional motivation through what he’s experiencing,” Southgate added, “and I think he’s a resilient guy with great character and we’re here to support him.” POLL England announced a 25-man squad for upcoming European Championship qualifiers against Malta and North Macedonia, with Crystal Palace midfielder Eberechi Eze receiving his first call-up and Brighton centre back Lewis Dunk returning four-and-a-half years after his only international appearance, which was against the United States. Trent Alexander-Arnold is back after a run of impressive displays for Liverpool in a new hybrid defender-midfielder role, while Eric Dier and Raheem Sterling were high-profile absentees. Southgate said Sterling’s absence was largely down to fitness issues rather than the forward’s form for Chelsea. “I spoke with him a week or so ago – a general catch-up,” Southgate said. “He’s not happy physically with his condition, having been carrying a hamstring problem. He really wasn’t in consideration.”