Arewa Youths have Called on NNPCL GCEO , Mele Kyari to resign from office with immediate effect Over alleged reported Cases of Corruption at NNPCL. Comrade Aminu Haruna MaipampoChairman, Arewa Youth Alliance for Progress and Development (AYAPD ) and James IshakuSecretary, AYAPD, the Arewa Youth Alliance for Progress and Development (AYAPD ) in a statement jointly issued on Sunday and made available to Sunday Independent said they were deeply concerned about the frequently reported cases of corruption within the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited (NNPCL) and have decided to call on the Group Managing Director (GCEO) of the NNPCL, Mr. Mele Kyari, to resign from his position with immediate effect. According to the duo, they are not happy that NNPCL is always in the news over the allegation of payment of 20bn to ghost contractors apart from another reported case of payment of billions of Naira to GCEO and the Head of Finance of the organisation. “This is in addition to a reported case of stolen crude oil worth over $2.5b that was found hidden in China which triggered the National Assembly to set up a committee to investigate the matter.” According to them, while Nigerians are still waiting for the outcome of the investigation by the National Assembly, Sahara Reporters, a reputable media outfit released another report on “System Money” where marketers pay $100,000 to the System to access cheap gasoline. “We condemn, in the strongest possible terms, the alleged allocation of gas to marketers after taking a $100,000 bribe, which has led to the high cost of the product. This is unacceptable, and it is an indication of the endemic corruption that has plagued the NNPC for years. “The “System” of corruption that has been established within the Corporation must crumble if our country must make significant progress.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They alleged that the scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) before and during the 2023 general election was a case of political sabotage designed with the Corporation to put the Candidate of the ruling party at a disadvantage position. POLL ” This is unacceptable, and it is an indication that the NNPC is being used to advance the interests of a few individuals at the expense of the Nigerian people. We wonder where they suddenly got the fuel that is now available for Sale immediately after the election.” The Arewa Youth leaders called on Mr. Mele Kyari to take responsibility for the failure of his leadership and immediately step down from his position. “We demand that the government takes swift and decisive action to investigate the allegations of corruption within the NNPC and bring the culprits to justice. “If Mr. Kyari fails to comply with our demands, we will have no other option but to embark on a warning mass protest on the eve of the Inauguration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Nigeria’s President-elect to demand for his resignation and the end of corruption within the NNPC. “We call on all Nigerians to join us in this fight against corruption and to demand that accountability and transparency in the management of the national resources.