The improvement in the volume of cash available for transactions improved private sector growth in the first quarter this year, Nigeria’s Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) report has shown. This has restored the private sector on the growth path as the productivity of the sector rose from 42.3 points in March to 53.8 points in April. This was contained in the Stanbic IBTC Bank’s PMI report for April 2023, which stated that there were signs of recovery in the private sector in April as the cash crisis eased. The report said that companies recorded a renewed expansion in purchasing activity at the start of the second quarter, thereby ending a two-month sequence of decline. It also attributed the higher input buying to improving customer demand. The PMI stated: ”Business activity in Nigeria returned to growth at the start of the second quarter of the year as improvements in cash availability helped lead to an increase in customer numbers.” “The sharp rise in output was the first in three months, and most pronounced since April last year. Rebounds in activity were seen across each of the agriculture, manufacturing, services and wholesale and retail “Improving demand amid an easing of the cash crisis and signs of business conditions normalising supported a renewed expansion in new orders in April. As was the case with output, growth of new business ended a two-month sequence of decline. Moreover, the pace of increase was substantial.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The report also said the rise in total new business was supported by a marked improvement in new export orders as April saw new business from abroad increase for the second month, with the rate of expansion accelerating from that seen in the previous survey period. POLL According to the Head, Equity Research West Africa, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Mr. Muyiwa Oni, firms in the private sector reported renewed expansions in new business and output amid improved access to funds. Oni added: “The headline PMI moved back above the 50 no-change mark for the first time in three months during April. At 53.8, the index was up from 42.3 in March and pointed to a solid overall improvement in business conditions in the private sector.