South-South Youths and Stakeholders have thrown their weight behind Former Akwa Ibom State Governor, Senator Godswill Akpabio for the exalted position of Senate President of the Nigerian 10th National Assembly. The forum called on the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, all elected senators and stakeholders to cede the position of Senate president to the south-south geopolitical zone. Addressing a press conference on Monday in Abuja, Chief Legborsi Yamaabana, President-General, Ogoni Youth Federation and Chairman, South-South Youths and Stakeholders said Akpabio should be given the top legislative job for the sake of inclusion and national integration. According to him ” The region’s last and only shot at the senate presidency was in 1979, when Joseph Wayas emerged under the administration of Shehu Shagari. He explained that Akpabio has demonstrated uncommon love by sacrificing his presidential ambition for the unification of his party and supported the president-elect at the APC presidential primary election. “He did not only step down for Asiwaju but worked assiduously to deliver Akwa Ibom state and other states of the South-South region. “We want to assure the president-elect, that Akpabio’s senate presidency will ensure a healthy and friction-free relationship between the legislature and executive. That our collectively endorsed candidate (Akpabio) is experienced, equipped, and a ranking senator with a deep understanding of legislative procedure and processes”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said the stakeholders from the region have observed with great dismay that no south-south person is heading any of the federal parastatals like the NNPC, FIRS, EFCC, or DPR and therefore called on the in-coming president to consider citizens of the geopolitical zone for strategic federal appointments for the sake of fairness and equity. POLL He also commended President Muhammadu Buhari, for taking steps beyond rhetoric, to ensure that Ogoni clean-up is being implemented, even as he prayed the in-coming administration to re-appoint the minister of environment, Mohammed Abdullahi, saying he has raised the bar of performance. ” After taking stock of all the aspirants to the office of the senate president, our son Senator Godswill Akpabio stands out. His sterling qualities and uncommon performance as governor, Senator, Senate Minority leader of the 8th Senate, and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs remain unparallel. ” Therefore, we call on other geopolitical zones to cooperate with the south/south region in choosing who becomes the next president of the Senate of the Federal of Nigerian in the 10th NASS” Yamaabana said.