ABUJA – A Coalition of Civil Society Groups on Monday, called on President Mu­hammadu Buhari to imme­diately reverse the appoint­ment of Board members of the North East Develop­ment Commission (NEDC), as well as its Managing Di­rector, or face legal action. The group gave Mr. Pres­ident 72-hour ultimatum to reverse the appointment or meet them in court. They pointed out that Pres­ident Buhari contravened the Constitution by passing the Senate which should have considered and confirmed these appointments. This is contained in a re­lease signed by the leaders of the CSOs, which include the Secretary, Coalition of Civil Society Groups, Abubakar Ibrahim; President, First Alliance Group, Olumide Kingsley Egbeola; Convener, Centre for Public Account­ability, Akindele Oluwafemi; President, African Leader­ship Strategy & Transpar­ency Development Initiative, Nelson Osaize; and President, Northern Nigeria Good Gov­ernance Forum, Ibrahim Sule. The Coalition said Bu­hari’s decision to bypass the Senate’s confirmation of the board members and Manag­ing Director of NEDC was a deliberate affront to the Con­stitution as well as an attempt to subvert the process of ap­pointing public office holders. According to the Coa­lition: “Our attention has been drawn to the recent unconstitutional role played by Mr. President in the recent appointment he did barely few days to hand over to the incoming administration. “We are worried about that. Why the hurry in confirming an appointment made by him without the Senate ratifying the same as laid down by ap­pointment procedure stated in Section 147 of the Consti­tution, such appointments made by the President and not confirmed by the Senate shall be null and void. “This breach of Consti­tutional provisions will not stand. We condemn the action of the outgoing President in the strongest term. POLL “The action is condem­nable and unacceptable. “We declare that the new board must be cleared by the Nigerian Senate before they will resume and therefore call on President Buhari to reverse his earlier decision. “We thus see the recent declaration and directive of Mr. President for NEDC board members to resume office without Senate confirmation as autocratic, undemocratic and above all reminds us of a military regime which should not be brought into any demo­cratic process. “This directive for the new Board and Managing Direc­tor of NEDC appointed by President Buhari to resume office without confirmation from the Senate is wrong and should not stand.”