…Appeals To Aggrieved Politicians To Allow Democracy Grow ….Cautions FG Over Rising Debt Burden The pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has commended the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the government of the United States of America (US) for warning those who might be thinking or planning to disrupt the inauguration of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on May 29, 2023 In a press statement issued by the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Jare Ajayi, Afenifere noted that the journey to the present democratic dispensation has been hectic and nothing should be done to truncate it. According to the organisation, since the conclusion of the presidential election on February 25, 2023, and the announcement of Asiwaju Tinubu as the winner, reports are rife of efforts being made to prevent the inauguration of the president-elect on May 29th, stressing that some people advocated for an Interim Government which has been largely condemned. The statement reads, “Apart from the statement made by the Vice Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Dr Datti Ahmed who spoke along that line, one Dr Simon Okeke, chairman of a Non-Governmental Organisation, while addressing the media at Chelsea Hotel, Abuja penultimate weekend, also asserted that inauguration of the president-elect on May 29 might be an open invitation for anarchy. To him, all cases in the court in respect of the election must be settled before the inauguration. Afenifere recalled that the Department of State Security (DSS) and the military in April confirmed the move to scuttle the scheduled inauguration and warned those who may be contemplating such. “Four residents of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) led by one Mr Ayanegbunam Ubala Okoye, are presently in court to use the legal process to stop the inauguration. It could be that there were other clandestine efforts along the same line hence the warning issued on May 4 this year by the Defence Headquarters of the Nigerian Army to those it described as ‘unscrupulous politicians’ who were bent on disrupting the May 29 inauguration. POLL “It appears that those making the move are still hell-bent in their unpatriotic contemplation hence the strong warnings that were issued separately by the IGP, Mr Usman Alkali Baba and Mr Antony J. Blinken, US Secretary of State, on Monday this week. “The Secretary of State is a very high-ranking officer in any country particularly in the US as it is in Nigeria. For such a top-ranking officer to make a statement about an issue outside the US indicates how seriously the matter was taken. Afenifere added, “In the said statement, Blinken announced the plan by America to impose visa restrictions on specific individuals in Nigeria for undermining the democratic process during Nigeria’s 2023 elections. The visa ban will also affect those believed to be responsible for, or complicit in, undermining democracy in Nigeria, according to Blinken. “On his part, IGP at a press briefing in Abuja on Monday declared: “Following the successful conclusion of the 2023 general elections, it has been observed that some major political actors, who the outcome didn’t favour, have been issuing public threats that are directed at instigating actions to frustrate the presidential inauguration ceremony on 29th May 2023.” “He, therefore, warned them to desist as the said date is not only sacrosanct, the police and other security agencies are determined to deal with anyone caught trying to disrupt the exercise. Afenifere hailed the security agencies and the US government on their stand to ensure that no one, no matter how highly placed, prevents the inauguration of Tinubu from May 29, 2023. The organisation appealed to all those who are aggrieved to be patient and allow the legal process they have already initiated to take its normal course. In a similar vein, Afenifere used the opportunity to caution the outgoing government of President Muhammadu Buhari to have a rethink on the $800 million facility it is securing from the World Bank for the provision of palliatives, stressing that it would be adding more to the already huge debt burden presently put at over N77 trillion according to the government-owned Debt Management Office (DMO). Afenifere stated, “The World Bank has said that Nigeria spent 96.3 per cent of its revenue on debt servicing in 2022 although the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed claimed that only 80.6 percent of Nigeria’s revenue was spent on debt servicing that year. The organisation recalled that Nigeria’s debt burden in 2015 when President Buhari came to power was N12.6 trillion but is now hovering around N80 trillion, and described the undesirable development as regrettable in view of so much infrastructural deficit, cut-throat insecurity and economic dislocation that is ravaging the land. The organisation expressed hope that in spite of such a debt profile, the incoming administration of Tinubu would be able to meet the high expectations of Nigerians and bring the country back from the precipice.