LAGOS  – The Kaduna Electric has begun rehabilitation and installation of new equipment at the 3×15 MVA Kofar Doka Injection Sub-Station to guarantee reliability and safety in Zaria and environs. The rehabilitation of the 20- year Kofar Doka Injection sub-Station was prioritized following the unfortunate accident of December 2022 as a result of obsolescence and equipment failure and Management determination to undertake an upgrade of equipment and civil works as to forestall a re-occurrence while modernising the Injection sub-station. After completion, the rehabilitation of the Injection sub-station will bring improvement in stability and reliability of supply on Zaria City, Wusasa, Teaching Hospital, Kofar Kibo and Gaskiya 11KV feeder,a statement from the spokesman of the company,Abdullahi Abdul Azeez said. He quoted the company’s Managing Director,Engr. Yusuf Usman Yahaya,as saying that said the exercise is in line with the Company’s resolve to revamp and modernise some of the obsolete infrastructure in its network. “As part of our network transformation and infrastructure revamp and modernization, we are embarking on rehabilitation of a number of critical injection sub-stations and installation of new equipment across our franchise; the Kofar Doka Injection sub-station rehabilitation is the first of these infrastructure revamp projects”, he said. He further revealed that beside rehabilitation of the control room, all the breakers and other protective equipment of the five outgoing 11KV feeders in the Injection sub-station shall be replaced with new ones. He disclosed that the sub-station was first commissioned in 2002, over twenty-one years ago, with most of the equipment being out-of-date and often breaks down, thereby posing serious hindrance to power supply stability in Zaria and environs as well as posing safety challenges. According to him, the company is committed to delivering electricity services to its customers in a sustainable and safe manner. POLL The rehabilitation of Kofar Doka Injection Sub-Station is scheduled for completion and commissioning over the next two weeks, in the first of a series of such rehabilitation and upgrade across Kaduna Electric Franchise Area.