For over two decades, insecurity in Nigeria has grown in scale and sophistication, posing an extraordinary risk to valued assets such as lives, investments, and the state’s territorial integrity. Gunmen attacks, farmer/herder conflicts, banditry, thuggery and kidnapping are among the numerous security travails in Nigeria. In the case of the killings in the South-east, experts identify those gunmen and security agents involved why they engage in these acts and how government can deal with them. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, UCHE NWOSU, PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU, RAYMOND OZOJI The latest gale of killings in the south-east was in Ogbaru, Anambra State. The casualty figure in the attack on the con­voy of staff of the US Consulate at the weekend has risen as the Inspector-Gen­eral of Police, Usman Alkali Baba con­firmed that seven persons were burnt beyond recognition in the assault. The earlier casualty figure had been put at four, with President Muhammadu Bu­hari, in a condolence message signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said two staff of the US Embassy and two policemen were killed. This is part of the story of the spi­raling killings by gunmen and security agents in that part of the country. The killing of the US Embassy staff has been roundly condemned as in previ­ous ones. Before the Ogbaru, Anambra State killing of US Embassy staff last week, gunmen had recently killed no fewer than five police officers and a cou­ple identified as Mr. and Mrs. Nwagu during an attack at Okpuala commu­nity in Ngor-Okpala LGA in Imo State. The gunmen killed the Nwagus’, who were the owners of the restaurant and carted away the police officers’ ri­fles after the attack. Some days earlier, Augustine Ukaegbu, an inspector of police, was killed by gunmen in Umuo­shike Ogbor, Aboh-Mbaise LGA of the state. In March, three officers of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) were feared dead fol­lowing an ambush in the Obiangwu community in Ngor-Okpala LGA. According to a report, in April 2023 alone, there was a spike in the killings of 95/100, representing 5.3 percent in the South-East. An independent study conducted by Nextier SPD into the ac­tivities of dissident groups in Nigeria’s South East region, particularly between 2021 and 2022, revealed how none State Armed Groups, dubbed “unknown gunmen,” killed 83 civilians and 36 se­curity personnel in the first half of 2022. Aside from the death, another 73 people were said to have been kidnapped in 28 kidnapping incidents in the South East during the same time period. According to the independent study, at least three civilians and one security personnel are killed each week as a re­sult of the activities of the unknown gunmen in the region. However, it has been said that the diverse and complex security challenges in Nigeria reflect the country’s social and economic in­equalities and governance shortcom­ings, which have contributed to unrest in the country. These security challeng­es have continued into 2023. Reports say that between March and April 2023, Northwest Nigeria wit­nessed a spike in banditry. Although some incidents were recorded in the North-central and Northeast regions, the Northwest recorded the highest, with 41 incidents and 188 casualties. The most affected state was Kaduna, with 115 deaths. Kaduna State, over time, has been plagued with ethno-religious tensions that banditry has exacerbat­ed. The incident in Zangon Kataf’s local government area of Kaduna led to the death of 29 civilians while significant damage was done to properties by the marauding bandits. In the number of kidnap victims, Kaduna state ranked first with 90 kidnaps, while Zamfara ranked second with 86 victims. The scourge of unknown gunmen has over the years taken centre stage in various parts of the country, especially in the South-East, while the term un­known gunmen have come to charac­terise the frequent incessant attacks, abductions and killings by gun-wield­ing men. In a drive to define the group, a previous Nextier publication described gunmen as unidentified violent armed groups. POLL Gunmen attacks are carried out by ‘Unknown Non-State Armed Groups’ (UNSAG), which the media usually does not define this group’s identity, hence the label of unknown gunmen. Other times gunmen assaults may be tied to the activity of a specific criminal organisation or thrive under the guise of repeated insecurity driven by a well-known criminal syndicate, despite hav­ing no connection to the famous group. Dr. Ndubisi Nwokolo of Nextier, a security expert told Saturday INDE­PENDENT that gunmen attacks are widespread in Southeast Nigeria, with isolated reports from other parts of the country. “Gunmen attacks on civilians, government facilities and security forc­es continued to play out between March and April 2023. Although the Southeast peaked in gunmen attacks between Jan­uary and February 2023, their activities in April and March 2023 occurred main­ly in the North-central region.” In the case of the spiraling killings, security experts and activists have ex­pressed concern about the consistent killings going on in the South-East by gunmen as well as alleged extra-judicial neutralisation of alleged criminals, as well innocent people by the police too. They have expressed even more con­cern about what has been responsible for these killings, whether they are criminal or political, whether they are exacerbated by politicians and reasons as well as the veracity of the accusa­tions that Police engage in extra-judicial killings and why the Police and other security agencies’ responses have been mainly reactionary. According to Nwokolo, the senseless killings by the group “We have come to know as ‘Unknown gunmen’ are driven by both criminality and political ma­nipulations. While we have some form of a splinter group from the original IPOB group engaging in such killings or criminal elements who are carrying out these activities while branding their identity(ies) or association as IPOB members. “We also have groups who are linked to the state who are fighting perceived oppositions of the administrations of some governments in the region. In states like Imo and Ebonyi, members of the Ebubeagu regional security outfit have been fin­gered as carrying out some of these at­tacks. And because the term ‘Unknown gunmen’ is loosely used these days, once an identity is not clear, it is said to be one,” Nwokolo told Saturday IN­DEPENDENT. He stressed that both the state security and the political class have been involved or complacent in the entire killings either through their operations and activities or the support they get from the conflict sit­uations. “With a further examination of our policing and security styles and sys­tems, every analyst who understands the entire context knows that without local intelligence and synergy of all the stakeholders, especially the security services, the police whose main duties centre on internal security is forced to be reactionary to threats and issues.” Speaking with our correspondent in Lagos, Ambassador Ebube George Ebisike, Roving Ambassador to State of the African Diaspora (SOAD), said Nigeria needs a critical socio-politi­cal reset in the quality of mindset of the politicians, followers and leaders who take office via the ballot. He said until politicians and the people build accountability as a guiding light when they come into power to serve the coun­try is going nowhere. “Until we can reform ourselves and mindset as a people who can thrive under the rubric of equity, justice and fairness for all, refusing ethnic bigotry, redistrib­uting wealth for the greater good and en­suring that we phase out the poverty of mind and system across top-bottom and ensure civil liberties bottom-up until we can stamp out corruption and make edu­cation a sine quanon for all, we will never understand the value of each human life as immeasurably sacrosanct enough to abhour bloodletting in all forms. “The last cycles of elections and particularly the 2023 elections speak to the evidence that politicians are at the heart of perpetuating thuggery for their elective gains. Including the kill­ings and failed society, we have today. Imagine a country where the House of Representatives is sponsoring a bill to emasculate or ban “protests” which is a globally accepted standard for the citizenry of any country/nation to vent their dismay about a sociopolitical sit­uation they don’t subscribe to like the #EndSARS protest?” he said. Chukwunonso Daniel Ogbe, an Enugu-based lawyer has attributed rising insecurity in south East region to the high rate of unemployment and poverty. In an interview with our corre­spondent in Enugu, Ogbe said that even though there are many factors responsi­ble for the increase in crime in Nigeria arguing that unemployment and pover­ty are major causes of violent crimes. Ogbe, also the former Governor­ship candidate of Action Alliance said “When people are unemployed, auto­matically you expect an increase in theft and even some violent crimes. I also know that there are some crimes that are politically motivated. So generally, just like most other parts of Nigeria, I know that the increase in crime in the south-east is ordinarily attributed to the frustrating state of Nigeria at the moment. “But we also appreciate the fact that there may be some political influences propelling the increasing criminality in this part of the country. And I think the way out of this quagmire is to have a firm leadership in the South-east. Once have a serious leader as governor in a given state, a governor who is coura­geous, a governor who is willing to de­ploy everything possible to improve the living standard of the people, I believe this move will frustrate the activities of criminal elements to a greater extent and crimes will be reduced.” But Comrade Osita Obi, the Conve­ner of Recover Nigeria Project, believes that insecurity in Anambra state is not politically motivated but criminally in­duced because, in his line of thought, the insecurity in the Ihiala axis of the state is purely criminal in nature. Ihiala according to him, is a border town from whence criminal elements found their way from neighbouring Imo and Abia states to unleash terror and mayhem on unsuspecting Ndi-Anambra. The Anambra State Commission­er of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, said the battle against the insurgents in the troubled South-east state, for example, is focused and will remain sustained until such time security stability is fully restored in the state. He said there have been some major positive devel­opments, following so much credible information to the Police Command from the residents of Anambra. The CP stated categorically that the synergy of Police, Military, other security agencies and vigilantes has helped immensely in the tackle and fight against the insur­gents in the state. There is no doubt that between March and April 2023, banditry, thug­gery, and gunmen attacks dominated vi­olent scenes, creating a sense of fear and instability. The Nigerian government’s attempt at addressing these challenges through law enforcement, communi­ty participation, and condemnation recorded some achievements though. However, the continued insecurity still poses a severe challenge to the Nige­rian government and security forces. Nonetheless, if the political, economic, and social problems at the root of the current crisis are addressed, experts be­lieve that there is hope that the country will attain stability for development.