IBRAHIM ABDULLAHI In a few days’ time, the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari will come to an end. Nigerians will usher in a new government to be led by a nationalist and a democrat, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who won a historic election on February 25, 2023. Two weeks after Tinubu’s inauguration, Nigerians will witness the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly. Ahead of that, there is already a serious tussle for the leadership positions in the incoming 10th Assembly. At the Senate, the positions of the President of the Senate and the Deputy President of the Senate are up for grabs. At the House of Representatives, the seats for Speaker and the Deputy Speaker are being highly contested. I have observed that the battle appears to be more fierce at the Green Chamber where about a dozen of ranking members-elect have indicated interest to contest for the Speaker’s seat. They include Tajudeen Abbas from Kaduna; the current Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase from Plateau; the chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, Muktar Aliyu Betara from Borno State; the chairman of the Committee on Navy, Yusuf Adamu Gagdi from Plateau State. Others include, Sada Soli Jibiya from Katsina State; Aminu Jaji from Zamfara State; House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa from Kano State; Makki Yalleman from Jigawa State; Abdulraheem Olawuyi from Kwara State and a host of others. POLL Also, different groups among the members-elect sprang up, but the one that appears more serious and more appealing to Nigerians is the Joint Task – 10th Assembly, a coalition of both returning and new members-elect from all the eight political parties that have won seats into the incoming 10th House. The political parties that form the coalition are: the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Labour Party (LP), the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP). According to the Joint Task – 10th Assembly, it seeks to promote the independence of the Legislature; the inter-dependence of the Legislature and the Executive; legislation for good governance and grassroots impact; constituency outreach; equity and fairness among ranking and new members, and ensure unity, equity and fairness in the emergence of Presiding and Principal Officers in line with best parliamentary practice. At its take off, the coalition resolved, in line with global parliamentary practice, to allow the party with the majority of seats, which is the APC, to produce the two Presiding Officers in the 10th House. Not only that, the coalition, which has Rt. Hon. Usman Bello Kumo, APC Gombe, as the chairman; Rt. Hon. Kingsley Chinda, PDP Rivers as co-chairman, and Rt. Hon. Aliyu Sani Madaki, NNPP Kano as secretary, also resolved to respect APC’s decision on zoning of the positions and has undertaken to work vigorously to actualise the arrangement, with all opposition parties playing a major role. The success of any administration depends largely on the kind of the National Assembly leadership in place. Therefore, the resolve of the Joint Task – 10th Assembly is for Nigeria’s unity and the stability of the 10th House. On Monday, May 8, 2023, the leadership of the ruling APC came up with the zoning arrangement, ceding the positions of speaker and the deputy speaker to the North West and the South East, and endorsed Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, representing Zaria Federal Constituency of Kaduna State, and Rt. Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu from Bende Federal Constituency of Abia State, for the two exalted positions respectively. The party also zoned the seat of the President of the Senate to the South South and that of the Deputy President of the Senate to the North West, endorsing Sen. Godswill Akpabio and Sen. Jibrin Barau respectively. But that decision was not made by APC alone. Prior to that, high-powered politicking took place, where all the aspirants for the positions made frantic efforts to get the endorsement of the President-elect. As a hunter of talent and someone who always goes for the best, Tinubu remained calm, and after diligently studying the contestants, he gave his nod for Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu in the House of Representatives. The Joint Task – 10th Assembly has since kept to its words and declared support for Abbas and Kalu and is vigorously campaigning for the duo. The truth is that no president would not have interest in those he will work with as the leaders of the National Assembly. We are all witnesses to the kind of mess the 8th Assembly created for President Muhammadu Buhari, because of the sour relationship that existed between the Executive and the Legislature at that time, as the leadership emerged against the wishes of the ruling party. Just a few days ago, the Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, told a delegation that paid him a visit to solicit for his support, led by Tajudeen Abbas, that as a governor, he has interest in who becomes the speaker in his state Assembly and that nobody would disagree with him if he settled for a particular person. Before Governor Sule, the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello also alluded to the fact that no matter what, he has interest in who becomes the speaker of his state Assembly. One interesting thing that Governor Sule also said was that the Northern governors, being the ones that pushed relentlessly for the southern presidency and eventually settled for Tinubu, they would not in any way fight against Tinubu’s choice for the leadership of the 10th National Assembly. Who is this Tajudeen Abbas that people have been talking about? Well, Tajudeen Abbas is a prince from the Zazzau Emirate. He holds the traditional title of the Iyan Zazzau, meaning he is in line of succession to become the Emir of Zazzau someday. He first got elected to the House of Representatives in 2011 on the platform of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) to represent Zaria Federal Constituency, and won reelection in 2015, 2019 and 2023, meaning he has been in the Green Chamber for 12 unbroken years now. Before coming to the House, Tajudeen Abbas has had a distinguished career in both public and private sectors. He had been a primary school teacher and later became a polytechnic and university lecturer. He was the pioneer head, Department of Accounting and Finance, Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, Zaria between 1989 and 1993. He also pioneered the Department of Business Administration at the same institution in 2001 before joining the Kaduna State University (KASU), where he established the Department of Accounting as the pioneer Head of Department in 2005. Tajudeen Abbas had worked at the Nigerian Tobacco Distribution Company (NTDC), now British-American Tobacco Company (BATC) between 1993 and 1996. He quit academia and joined politics in 2010, where he contested for the House of Reps seat for Zaria Federal Constituency and won. He came into politics well prepared as he had already obtained several masters degrees and a PhD in business administration management prior to his first election as a legislator. Calm, collected and highly measured, Hon. Tajudeen Abbas has been described as a silent achiever by his colleagues. In the 8th Assembly – between 2015 and 2019 – he held the record of a single member that sponsored the highest number of bills in the entire National Assembly. When he returned for the 9th House – from 2019 to date – Tajudeen Abbas singlehandedly sponsored record breaking 74 bills out of which 21 were signed into law. Before now, most Nigerians did not know this, because the man remains unassuming. He doesn’t want to blow his trumpet and attract attention to himself. You can only imagine if it were another lawmaker that achieved this feat. Therefore, for a stable and united 10th House of Representatives that will give Tinubu the required support and cooperation. It is only expedient that members-elect of the 10th House queue behind Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu to deliver the good governance that we all yearn for.