…Nobody’ll Compel Me Not To LAGOS – Chief Lamidi Apapa, factional National Chairman of the Labour Party (LP), has said that he intends to go to the Presidential Election Tribunal (PET) on Friday, where the presidential candidate of LP, Peter Obi is contesting the result of the just concluded presidential election won by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Apapa who was ordered out of the court yesterday by security personnel and was also alleged to be mobbed, said he would be in court on Friday irrespective of what happened on Wednesday, to observe proceedings on Friday, stressing that nobody would compel him not to go. Speaking in an interview on Thursday, he said, “I intend to be in court tomorrow (Friday) if the executives tell me not to go, I will decide not to go but nobody should compel me not to go. “If one has authority to do something irrespective of politics paying out, I’m not doing something contrary to the law of the party or the land by asserting my authority as the acting chairman of the party? “If Abure who fails to honour court orders is applying at the tribunal with Peter Obi who is trying to claim his mandate from the tribunal through the rule of law, is that the right thing to do? You want to claim your mandate through the court of law and you call yourself a good Nigerian,” Apapa said. Answering questions on the allegation that he was working against the interest of the party by his action at the court on Wednesday, he said, “I am fully behind Obi’s candidacy. They are not more Obidient than me. If he wins the election, my life will be better. I prefer him to win, and on Obi’s mandate, I stand. If Abure can clear himself from his forgery cases, he can come back and take his seat.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “My action yesterday (Wednesday) was never a mockery to the party. If someone asks for his rights, it is not a mockery. What Obi asked them to do to me was a mockery. I was there to claim my authority. I am the authority of the party as the acting national chairman of the party. POLL “In a democratic setting when you have a woman leader and an acting chairman, do you need to consult your dictionary to know who is superior? The woman leader sat beside Obi. It was his responsibility to recognise me and not the woman leader in a decent society. Obi came to the party in less than one year but I’ve been in the party for 21 years,” he said.