ABUJA – A Diaspora group under the aegis of Professionals for Good Governance and Social Justice (PGGSJ) has said that the declaration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of All Progressives Congress (APC) as President-elect, cannot stand in court considering the number of irregularities at the just concluded February 25, 2023, presidential election. The group, in a statement by its Convener, Dr Ben Chukwu, said that based on the independent investigation carried out by it on the outcome of the February 25, Presidential election, it was observed that there were irregularities in the results released by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in Lagos, Rivers, Edo, Plateau, Borno, Kaduna, Ekiti and several other places in the country. The group claimed that from the investigation and analysis of presidential election results of Lagos state from iREV portal, Labour Party won APC with a total of 178,411 votes as against the figure declared by INEC where Labour Party Party won with 10,000 votes and it is important to note that this margin was after returning those obvious switched/altered votes to their rightful places, although most were not legible. The group added that the results equally showed that about 23% of them are: blurred, mutilated, over-voted, absent and unaccounted for. “It is evident that APC being in control of Lagos cannot allow results they won to fall into the aforesaid categories. Hence, these are Labour Party results that have been doctored and bastardised by the APC and INEC under the supervision of security agents,” the group said. The group therefore called on all well-meaning Nigerians, the security agencies and especially the Judiciary/judges to save Nigeria from inevitable disintegration and unimaginable crisis by jettisoning the corruptly announced result, upholding the rule of law and restoring justice to the pained Nigerian masses. The statement reads: ” The wave of the February 25th Presidential Election is still hovering around every Nigerian both at home and in Diaspora. Until now, many Nigerians cannot comprehend why the INEC chairman ignored every call to follow the 2022 Electoral Act as well as the INEC guidelines in announcing winners of elections. He rather enjoined all aggrieved parties to go to Court, when he could have withheld the declaration and confirmed what has been uploaded to the IREV.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “INEC has displayed who they are again by conducting the worst election in the history of Nigeria. After wasting over N300 Billion taxpayers’ money, the iREV server was switched off to make it impossible for presiding officers to upload results in real time. POLL “After the election and all that happened, PROFESSIONALS FOR GOOD GOVERNANCE AND SOCIAL JUSTICE (PGGSJ) began an investigation into what happened during the election and who actually won the February 25th Presidential Election. While other groups have been investigating results from other states, PGGSJ chose Lagos state with the highest pooling units of 13,325. What the group discovered is a BOMBSHELL as we decided to share the information in this medium. “From the investigation carried out it was discovered that Labour Party won APC with a total of 178,411 votes as against the figure declared by INEC where Labour Party Party won with about 10,000 votes. “The results equally showed that about 23% of them are: Blurred, Mutilated, Over-voted, Absent and Unaccounted for. It is evident that APC being in control of Lagos cannot allow the results they won to fall into the aforesaid categories. Hence, these are Labour Party results that have been doctored and bastardised by the APC and INEC under the supervision of security agents. “Going by the volume of alterations in Lagos results plus similar alterations already noticed in Rivers, Edo, Plateau, Bornu, Kaduna, Ekiti, Benue and several other states, it will be a grave injustice, wickedness, extreme rascality and unprecedented impunity to allow the Presidential election result as announced by INEC to stand. “We, therefore, call on all well-meaning Nigerians, Security agencies and especially the judiciary/ Judges to save Nigeria from inevitable disintegration and unimaginable crises by jettisoning that corruptly announced result, upholding the rule of law and restoring justice to the pained Nigerian masses.”