LAGOS  – To succeed in the 21st century and reduce the dependence on government funding, public universities have to look inward and embark on projects that can generate revenues to fund their activities, Dr. Seinde Fadeni, Chairman of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc , has said. Tato Ajakaye, Assistant General Manager, Corporate Communications, NAHCO in a statement, said that Fadeni gave the advice at the International Conference of the Faculty of Education, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, recently. Fadeni hinted that government alone could not shoulder the responsibility of funding the universities, challenging the institutions to adopt other means of generating sustainable revenues. Referring to the specific case of OAU, Fadeni stated the university would do well to make use of its wide expanse of land for agricultural production, which could be sold to both local and foreign markets. Fadeni, who received a Distinguished Award for Excellence in Educational Philanthropy at the university, pointed out that OAU could be self-sustaining if it taps more aggressively into its abundant natural and intellectual resources. Represented at the event by Dr. Olusola Obabori by the Group Executive Director, Business & Corporate Services, NAHCO, Fadeni was of the view that the university should put into better advantage its land and human resources to the benefit of the institution. He said: “In addition to private sector donations, grants for research activities, private philanthropy and various alumni interventions, there are quite a few things you could do that would bring more revenue to this institution. “These revenues would empower and help you to commercialise various research breakthroughs in the fields of technology, medical and pharmaceutical sciences for which this university is known, thereby creating larger streams of income.” POLL The NAHCO Chairman advised the university to consider establishing an industrial and technology park where all the ideas could be harnessed as a way of supporting industrialisation of Nigeria and creating employment opportunities to members of the university community, including fresh graduates, students, interns and the larger society. While suggesting that the university could actually cater wholly for its energy needs, the NAHCO Chairman said the dam in the university could be converted to a power generating hydropower plant instead of allowing same to remain underutilised. This, he said could be in addition to building large solar fields for the same purpose, maintaining that these measures would make the university substantially self – reliant in electricity now and in the future. Prof. Emeritus, Funmi Togonu-Bickersteth, the lead paper presenter at the event, also urged universities to internationalise their activities. He posited that the global world was moving at an incredible speed and encouraged varsities to make good use of technology. Also commenting, Prof. Adebayo Bamire, the Vice Chancellor of the university, represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, Prof. Oubola Babalola, had while welcoming participants to the event, acknowledged the assistance of NAHCO Chairman to the successful hosting of the conference and called for more funding for universities.