LAGOS  – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), has reaffirmed its commitment towards ensuring that single window system, which paves way to smooth trade facilitation works. The NCS maintained that it is taking the lead and working regularly with other relevant agencies to ensure proper implementation of the single-window system for trade facilitation, as part of its modernisation project. Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd), Comptroller General of Customs (CGC), gave this assurance at a 2-day training retreat organised by the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON) in Lagos. The theme of the event is “Enhancing Capacity/Efficiency in Modern News Reportage.” The single-window system is a trade facilitation concept which allows an international trader submit information to a single platform, rather than having to deal with multiple agencies in different locations to obtain necessary papers, permits, and clearances to complete their import or export processes. However, investigation reveals that Nigeria is still struggling to fully implement the concept which helps save time, and which is recognised by the World Customs Organization (WCO), as well as other trade related organisations. The Nigerian government Agencies involved in the process include: Nigeria Customs Service(NCS), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Federal Ministry of Finance, National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA), Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) and Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit(NFIU). The Customs boss, who was represented at the occasion by Abdullahi Maiwada, a Chief Superintendent of Customs (CSC), also the National Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Service, said that the Service had been working hard and carrying along all agencies involved in the trade process to make it work as expected. POLL He stated that the objective remained the improved movement of goods, eliminating time wastage, reducing associated costs burden and maximising efficiency, while safeguarding legitimate trade. He said: “The issue of single window is one of the WCO trade facilitation areas which has to do with coordination and cooperation among agencies. “It is one of the key areas if we really want to take trade seriously in Nigeria. The effort is on and we are hopeful of achieving that. “It is not a core responsibility of the Customs alone to achieve this; so many agencies need to come together so that we can have good interaction between us. I think this kind of interface is been championed by the Customs. If you look at our system, it embraces sister agency collaboration so that cargoes can be moved effectively.” The CGC also explained some of his major achievements in office as the helmsman of the Service. He noted that the Customs Act 2023 was a major milestone, apart from the trade modernisation project and the completion of the corporate headquarters in Abuja. He, however, emphasised that the new Act was not yet available to the public because it has not been officially gazette. He added that the effective date for the full implementation of the legislation would be decided as a matter of priority in due course. “The act is not in the public domain because it is yet to be officially gazetted. The department of legal services is working day and night to ensure that the law is gazetted. “And before that is perfected, a holistic sensitisation will commence, right from the management members, to comptrollers and stakeholders. I’m working on a media plan on how the sensitisation will be effective.” The Customs boss pointed out that based on performance, the Nigeria Customs Service is doing better than some of their foreign counterparts and would continue to improve on effective service delivery and trade facilitation. On anti-smuggling, he revealed that the Service would soon adopt the use of satellite images, geospatial, drones and others in tackling economic sabotage in the country’s borders. Speaking further, the Customs boss commended AMJON for hosting the event, stating that Journalism is an important and highly regarded profession that helps to propagate the activities of the NCS. Other Customs Public Relations Officers (PROs) who accompanied their National PRO to the event Muhammad Yakubu, Public Relations Officer, Port and Terminal Multi Services Limited(PTML) of NCS, Theophilus Duniya, PRO, Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone ‘A’, Hussaini Abdullahi of Seme border command; Hameed Oloyede of Ogun 1 Command, Hameed Oloyede; Mailafia Magaji of Western Marine Command and VU Ogabor of Murtala Muhammed Airport Cargo Command, as well as other officers and men of the Service.