LAGOS – The Rotary Club of Ikoyi (District 9110), has renovated school toilets, provide a borehole, four water tanks of 2500 liters capacity each, wash stations, and re-pipe the entire water system amounting to N4.5million for the St Mary’s Girls Primary School in Lagos Island, Lagos State. The project which took the club two years to come to fruition was commissioned on Monday, May 22, at the school premises, with both students, Lagos State Schools Management and staff of the school lauding the Rotary Club for the initiative. Speaking at the event, Dr Augustin Irabor, the current President of the Rotary Club of Ikoyi (District 9110) said the project was undertaken courtesy of a popular grant organized through District 9110. He said, “This project started about two years ago, we were able to identify the schools in areas where we could support our community. The project was facilitated by District 9110, so we identified this school, St Mary’s Girls’ School, and then we came for the first initial need assessment, we discovered that the state of the toilet facility they have, half of them were not in a functional state, and we identified it and put it in our project for this year.“We were quite fortunate to get approval from the global grant; that is the Rotary International, we now have to put in our own to execute the project; that is what we have come to commission today,” Irabor disclosed. On the reason for choosing St Mary’s School, he said in as much as every school in the community has its special needs, those of St Mary’s Girls’ Primary School required more urgent attention, adding that the club started with its immediate community. “Rotary Club of Ikoyi is just about five minutes from here. So it is good to start from where you live. For the projects, we have to, first of all, give preference to our immediate community; that is Ikoyi and Island and its environs,” he said.Advising the benefitting school on need to maintain the facility, he said; “The facilities were put there for the good use of the children because if you had come here at the first time, you would realize that, yes, it is not in the good interest of a child to study in a dilapidated environment because the toilet, the water system, is hygiene, and hygiene is very key to the wellbeing of every person, but more importantly also for the children, they should make good use of these facilities so that when others would see it, it will encourage them to do more.” Irabor, who said the club has follow-up and maintenance solutions for all their facilities, talked about his tenure and what he has been able to do as the president of the Rotary Club. He stated: “In the Rotary agenda, we run from July to June, I actually have about one and half months to round off, but that notwithstanding, we have a very good succession plan, my incoming president will also be here, who is going to take over from me. During this year 2022/2023 we have had a series of projects lined up for the year, which we have judiciously accomplished. First of all, we had the basic life support training, we have done that very well, it is still ongoing and the incoming administration is also going to take that into consideration and will continue that. POLL We want to ensure that the people within Ikoyi and its environs feel safe and they are able to get first aid support whenever they are. So we trained all the representatives of companies so that they can, at any point in time, If somebody slumps, he needs to be in an emergency, somebody will be able to attend to them. That is the purpose of the basic life support training, we called it the emergency squad. So that is our star project for this year. “Besides that, we have organized a prostate screening exercise which we did at the general hospital about a stone’s throw from here, and we had cases where they were able to identify very serious cases and they were referred to appropriate quarters for attention. So these are the things that we do, we have also organized polio immunization during the year, it was well attended, we did that at Obalende in Ikoyi LCDA. We also organized what is called the Golf Tournament, which was a fundraising event, and then it helped us to generate fund and then create awareness in the community that we need to have service projects in this community, we have more than 20 projects, and we are just rounding off with this water and sanitation,” Irabor disclosed. The Rotary President explained what the entire project entailed “It is a project we handled with the global grant like I said. The global grant in a nutshell is what? Rotary International, gives you an opportunity to identify a project, and when you identify the project you do the need assessment, you do the costing, and at the end, if the cost of the project is $100, they are ready to give you $50. So they support you with half of what you are going to do. Summarizing the entire cost of the project Irabor said “Now in terms of funding, the funding is from that global grant, we have a project of about N4.5 million and that is to do what? To be able to refurbish the borehole system, we have to change and then build up 10 toilet systems, and then with corresponding wash stations, four water tanks with 2,500 liters capacity each. We also changed the piping systems, because when we came we realized that rather than just turning on the tap, or when you go to the toilet you flush it, the children were using buckets to fetch water from the ground floor to the second floor, which was a bit hectic for our children. So we now felt that, yes, the best thing is to, first of all, re-pipe all the water circulation system and then provide the tanks and change the toilets. We renovated the place, changed all the doors, rebuilt the toilet itself, put all the tiling, and then all the finishing. That is what we have done and we have also built the wash station where the children can easily go there, fetch water whenever they want to wash their hands or do some washing on the ground floor, but generally, there is water everywhere, as you can see when we went round, all the facilities are working, that is what we have done,” he concluded. Rotarian (Dr) Kamoru Omotosho, Past District Governor, from the Rotary Club of Ikoyi, District 9110, on his part said that what Rotary Club at the school is in the area of focus is classified underwater, sanitation and hygiene, and we feel that if we are able to look after the children by providing them with water, their health will be good and they will be able to concentrate on their education. He added that apart from just water and sanitation, this particular year we are focusing on girl-child. You see, one of the things that tend to cause absenteeism from school is when they are doing their menses, so apart from commissioning, we are also here to distribute sanitary pads for their use.”