The Delta State Police Command has described as false a trending video clip of alleged cult initia­tion in a secondary school in the state. The Command said it was aware of a viral video clip on var­ious social media handles that captured an activist in one of the secondary schools around 74 Area, Asaba, Delta State. A release by the command’s PPRO, DSP Bright Edafe, said the command, having examined the video clip and carried investiga­tion, wishes to debunk the narra­tive by the said activist as false and should be completely disregarded. “The command wishes to state that “On receipt of the video clip, the Commissioner of Police, CP Wale Abass, immediately direct­ed the Area Commander Asaba, ACP Sunday Oladipo, and the command’s Public Relations Offi­cer, DSP Edafe Bright, to proceed to the school for an on-the-job spot investigation. “On arrival at the school prem­ises, the school pupils, teacher, and one of the parents were in­terrogated. A mother of one of the affected children stated that her children said it was a game in the school tagged ‘snake bite’ and nothing more to it. “The PPRO probed further to ascertain the claim and inter­viewed the school pupil, which led to an interesting discovery. One Uche, surname unknown aged 9 told his younger brother, known as Emeka, surname un­known aged 6 about the game called ‘snake bite’ and the young­er brother obliged. “When the said Uche was asked how it was done, he said it’s a piece of paper that is used to do it. The PPRO then asked if it could be done on him, and the child accepted. The PPRO offered his hands, and the child used a small white paper to rub the back of his palm, which gave rise to the exact mark on the same spot that is being wrongly portrayed as cult initiation. “It became clear that it is a harmless trend among school chil­dren and not a cult initiation pro­cess as it was wrongly portrayed by the said activist. POLL “The command, therefore, urg­es parents to be calm and ignore the false claim making the rounds. Also, it is noteworthy that any right-thinking person who noticed such a trend ordinarily would go into proper investigation and also inform the police to investigate before posting on social media. It is again advised that the false publication should not be taken seriously,” the PPRO stated.