BENIN – Justice Development Peace and Caritas Initiatives of Uromi Catholic Diocese (Uromi JDPCI), weekend assembled stàkeholders in Education project in Edo Central Senatorial District of the state to brain storm on the need to protect the child and to remind government to sit up in meeting its responsibility of providing quality education to the citizens. The event, according to Uromi JDPCI was put together to commemorate the international day for the Protection of Children, which it said has become a tradition at Uromi JDPCI as it annually join the rest of the world to mark the auspicious event that was attended by past and present administrators of Education as well as primary and secondary school students in Esan land. In a keynote address, Very Rev Fr Dr Fidelis Arhedo, Executive Director, Uromi JDPCI said, “the commemoration of Childs Protection Day has become a tradition at Uromi JDPCI as we annually join the rest of the world to mark this auspicious event. “We gather together, from different works of life, settings, and locations, halting and suspending our various activities and programmes to celebrate our children. “ “The big question to ask will be; “WHY?” why do we need to gather together to celebrate the protection of Children, not just locally but internationally? This is because of the importance of children and the connections they have in shaping our world in the future, which some of us seated here might witness if God spare our lives. “Whether we stay alive or not, as parents and guidance, we are mandated by the Almighty to coordinate and preserve orderliness in the world, which reflects the Will of God in Heaven. “Therefore, the fundamental way in fulfilling this mandate is to participate in every affair of children entrusted to us by God. POLL “Who then is a Child? Under the Law, a child is usually referred to as an individual who is a minor, and who is below the age of maturity, which in Nigeria’s context, is a person below the age of 18 years. “In family Law, a child is an offspring whether biologically or adopted, of either one or both spouses, which in the event of divorce, becomes an ancillary issue to be considered during litigation that finalizes the custody, visitation and support of the child. These the Law considers because of the need to protect and safeguard children from harm, abuses and exploitations” he said.. Fr Dr Fidelis Arhedo also said this is why Uromi JDPCI prioritizes the education of children in her interventions. “Uromi JDPCI has contributed to the protection of children by educating adolescents in 25 schools across the 5 LGAs in Edo Central Senatorial District on their rights as children, as well as increased their knowledge of laws that protect the rights of children; such as the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended particularly on Chapter IV of the Constitution, the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Law, Edo State Childs Protection Policy 2015 and host of others. ” There are numerous legislations and guidelines that protect and safeguard the wellbeing of a child and one of such legislation in Nigeria, particularly in Edo State is the Childs Right Law that enumerates the various rights of children from their infancy to their adolescent age. “In connection to the theme of this year’s celebration, which is “Improved Quality Education through Adequate Funding”, we shall be particular on Section 15 of the Childs Right Law which states that “Every Child has the Right to free and compulsory basic education whether male or female from their parents, and it is the duty of every state government to ensure it.“The same section further stated that “…any female child that gets pregnant, during schooling will be given an opportunity to conclude her education after delivery, failure to comply attracts punishment and payment of fine” ” Based on this, we urged the government to sit up in meeting its responsibility of providing quality education to the citizen and suffice to say that the standard of learning has not improved in many schools and if education is not properly managed and well funded, the foundation of the nation is destroyed. “So based on this | sincerely appeal that the State government and all the relevant stakeholders do their best to reposition education for the betterment of our children. We do not want to have children who feel disappointed in themselves, and inadequate. It is not their fault; it is a circumstance beyond their control. “Therefore, it is not gainsay that the private sector and government need to pay more attention to the educational sector in Nigeria so as to raise a healthy and solid country that the youth would be reliably and authentically committed to their vocation, and education ought to be a means by which the value of Nation building is named” he declared. In a paper titled “Improved Quality Education Though Adequate Funding” presented by the guest speaker, Rev Sister Christie at the occasion, •Inadequate funding of education does not just affect students’ optimal academic performance, it also has a negative impact on them psychologically, mentally and physically. “Can this be one of the reasons for recklessness among our youth these days? Can this be the reason the number of school drop-outs in Nigeria is on the increase? How do we expect a child schooled in dilapidated buildings with limited or no human and material resources be of good character? How do we expect them to value education that does not meet their developmental needs? She also added that Nigeria can only be greater through education not agriculture as many made us to believe because a good farmer is the well educated one.