AHMAD T I J JANI ABDUL It’s certainly not the best of times for the House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa who has just been reelected to the 10th Assembly from Tudun Wada/ Doguwa federal constituency of Kano State for the record six times. The Kano State born legislator came into limelight during the aborted third Republic when he was elected to the House of Representatives under the platform of the defunct Social Democratic Party of Nigeria (SDP). The current national leader of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso was his colleague at that botched Assembly. Bold, and brilliant, Alhassan Ado Doguwa’s sojourn at the Green Chamber has been worthwhile, if not for anything, he is seen by most Nigerians today as a multi billionaire, no thanks to oversight functions, and ostentatious lifestyle. Those who hold this opinion might be right, because he has demonstrated at various fora attitude of Nigeria rich class as evident in one of his empowerment programmes in 2022. The House leader assembled N70m cash that was distributed to his constituents in the presence of the outgoing Kano first lady, Dr. Hafsat Ganduje, the former Commissioner for local government, Alhaji Murtala Sule Garo, among other top shots of the ruling party. Similarly, during the end of year lecture organised by the leadership of the correspondents chapel in 2022, Alhassan Ado Doguwa announced a donation of N5m, and instantly transferred a whooping sum of N2m to the journalists account. The House leader was also a cynosure of eyes when he stole the show at the activities marking 40 years of Bayero University Mass Communication Alumni late last year. POLL But, the tough talking legislator, and proud husband of four housewives, and 28 children from the conservative north west state of Kano, his latest victory at the last general elections, where he had a clash with a retired Air Force officer, came with a huge price as in the end of that exercise he was accused of allegedly plotted, and masterminded a devastating violence that took the lives of no fewer than 15 members of the opposition New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP). In the end, the police came calling, hung alleged culpable Homicide round his neck amidsts threats, and possibilities of annihilating Doguwa’s records of achievements. Undoubtedly, Doguwa who by sheer providence took on the verge of taking 23 years from the life of his constituents, ordinarily should be susceptible to all manner of hostilities from either within or without. Reasons are that, it is believed, he must have stepped on toes in the course of his political trajectory. In the beginning, the 2020 Masters in Public Relations graduate of Bayero University Kano was alleged to have masterminded gruesome attacks on the NNPP Secretariat at Doguwa where the opposition party claimed no fewer than 15 persons were either roasted alive, maimed or hacked to death during the political upheaval that swept through his country home. The hullabaloo generated by the alleged arson by the House leader saw the principal officer of the 360 man House of Representatives arraigned before a Kano based magistrate who after taking his plea sent him on remand for five days. In what pundits described as a “judicial coup” Doguwa’s lawyers went to a High Court in Kano to secure a N500m bail bond that temporarily secured his freedom. However, the action of the High Court set tongues wagging, and raised the political temperament of Kano city, perhaps, the intervention of the Inspector General of Police who dutifully assigned a Deputy Inspector General (DIG) to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the matter doused the tension. Just last Friday, the police high command transmitted its findings to the outgoing Kano Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Musa Abdullahi Lawan to prosecute the ranking lawmaker. Musa Abdullahi Lawan while briefing reporters in his office over the development said the Kano State Commissioner of Police transmitted the diary to the Ministry around 12:45hrs on Friday. Musa Abdullahi Lawan said, “I would like to assure the general public that within a very short possible time, we are going to study the case diary with a view to giving legal advice.” The Ministry before now demanded for exhibits to include the picture of the corpses, the witness statements, the gun recovered among many other exhibits to enable prosecution prove the alleged offences as charged by the police, said the offences are contrary to sections 97, 114, 221,247 and 336 of the penal code. Unfortunately, security sources in the city that are conversant with the details of the report told Daily Independent on condition of anonymity that “the House leader is in for trouble”. The source explained that the crack team that investigated Doguwa found him “overwhelmingly wanting, and has a case to answer.” Interestingly, time has indeed run out for the outgoing number one Kano law officer to execute the case diary, or put advice accordingly, but in the circumstances will leave behind for the incoming administration to do the needful. Until lately, Alhassan Ado Doguwa’s public conduct came under scrutiny shortly after an altercation between him, and the immediate past Kano Commissioner for local government, Alhaji Murtala Sule Garo degenerated into a fisticuff where it was alleged, the House leader used tea cup as weapon in that bloody encounter. Doguwa who was conscious of the implications of “wrong news” in the public space in an election year hurriedly arranged a media parley to put the issue in perspective in one of his palatial buildings located at Nassarawa GRA. It was a roll call of representatives of local, national and international media. While the journalists waited patiently for Doguwa to address the press, he walked to the gathering to ask for more time to get ready, and in the instance, Ado Diguwa fired a salvo that he wouldn’t be cowed by a local champion, apparently in reference to Murtala Sule Garo. However, there was a mild drama when one Abdullahi Yakubu of the Leadership newspaper attempted to calm him down, and in return was handed a dirty slap that sent shock waves to bewildered gentlemen at Doguwa’s multi million naira residence. At the end of the day, voice of reasons prevailed, Doguwa briefed the press, and requested for a group photograph with his aged mother who had been around. But, trouble however ensued, when the Publicity Secretary of the Kano State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Aruwa joined the motley crowd for the photoshoot. An enraged House leader in a rare feat common to the professional mix martial artist stepped forward, and uprooted 250 kg Aruwa from the crowd to the utter consternation of his aged mom, and invited guests. Interestingly, the city dwellers were stunned days after the ugly incident, Abdullahi Yakubu reported the assault to the police. Ado Doguwa was invited by the AIG office, zone 1, quizzed and granted bail on self-recognition. Subsequently, Doguwa entered into a plea bargain, and out of court settlement with the Leadership reporter after his lawyer slammed the House leader with a N100m suit. Humble, Doguwa tendered a public apology to the reporter, and journalism profession that was aired by all the local radio stations in Kano city to bring to an end melodrama with melancholy ending. These strings of public misdemeanors might have informed Kano State APC stakeholders to jettison Doguwa’s life ambition to rule over the 360 man House of Rep. as Speaker. One of the critical stakeholder who spoke with Daily Independent on condition of anonymity said, “Doguwa’s candidacy was jettisoned by the top echelon of the ruling party due largely to baggage induced by his well known emotional instability.” For sure, Alhassan Ado Doguwa is in the eye of the storm, but how soon will all these self-instigated crises plummet remains a matter of months to be seen, most especially now that there will be a change of guard in the state.