For over 500 years, the Vatican City, and the Great Pyramid of Egypt have set the precedent for what has become the foundation of modern-day engineering, giving us the blueprint for constructing some of the most incredible landmarks ever created on earth – Dr. Sijibomi Ogundele. The principles that govern the structural integrity of any building are universal. Whether you are building in Japan or Ijebu Ode, the structural principles used in both distant regions would present the same result when matched. Buildings don’t just collapse all of a sudden; buildings are bound to crumble because of the underlying factors that pose major concerns: defects in design, compromises in the quality of the foundation, or compromises in the quality of materials used to erect such structures. The persistent story of collapsed buildings isn’t a new phenomenon in the universe. There are a handful of buildings collapsing in Miami, Cape Town, and even Lagos Island. This happens because such structures weren’t built to last for more than 20 years, while in the same vein, some structures like the Burj Khalifa, Empire State Building, Kuala Lumpur Twin Tower, and even the over 500-year-old Vatican City are clear samples of architectural marvels designed to stand the test of time. Selica is clearly not a Ferrari; there is a fundamental difference between erecting a skyscraper and building a Terrace or a 2-floor apartment. Be it a 1004 type of finishing or a Sujimoto type of finishing, a developer can compromise standards in fixing tiles, windows, or doors, but you can’t compromise the structural integrity of any building above five floors: the quality of the concrete mix, the strength of the steel, and the foundation on which it sits must meet the international standard for structural integrity. There is always much more to a building than meets the eye. A wide gamut of factors determines the lifespan of a property. That is why we traveled all over the world to study the best of ancient engineering. We have critically studied how the most majestic structures in the world have lived to stand the test of time, from the (2570 BC) Great Pyramid of Giza to the architectural prowess of the Kuala Lumpur Twin Tower, which has stood for almost half a century. We realized that beyond the beauty and architectural masterpieces of these structures, they were meticulously and intentionally built to stand the test of time. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Because we love building high rises, our current audacious project, LucreziaBySujimoto, prompted us to research global best practices for what it takes to create a building that will outlive us. In this quest, we studied historical landmarks built as a result of incredible artistry and breathtaking engineering. We sourced the best hands from across the globe while training local architects and engineers through a collaborative approach. In 2017, we also visited the team of engineers, geniuses behind the tallest building in the world, the Burj Khalifa, a vertical city that sprawls 163 stories into the skies of Dubai, as well as the ingenuity designers behind New York city’s historical landmark that has stood for almost a century, the Empire State Building. One of our findings revealed that these engineers spend excessive time in design, an extensive period of planning while following a well-mapped-out strategy in execution. These set of engineers ensure they cross all t’s and dot all i’s, giving room for zero tolerance for any mistake in structural integrity. One thing these remarkable feats of engineers have in common is that the methodology behind the execution of these projects is a clear indication that skyscrapers built in any corner of the universe can be designed and constructed to last for centuries if only it follows the philosophy and design of structural integrity. When we started Sujimoto in 2014, we realized that the pace at which buildings were being dotted across every corner of Lagos State was at an alarming rate. There are so many developers delivering legbegbe ‘mal-structural’ properties to prospective home buyers in various neighborhoods in Nigeria, but our vision for Sujimoto was to erect buildings that won’t only be stunning and magnificent, but structures that can stand for over 200 years. We have studied the global champions in Architecture from different parts of the globe, we’ve also carried out an extensive research in studying the best of the best in our region, we realized that great construction companies like Julius Berger and Cappa & D’Alberto though operating in local regions also have a Standard Operating Procedure that meets the global ethics of construction. It is clear and evident that any modern-day architecture, whether in the richest neighborhoods of Miami or the suburbs of Gwagwalada, if not conformed with the structural principles and the best design methodology, is bound to crumble under the weight of time, leaving only ruins as ageless reminders that when you negotiate the value of quality, you pay the price for mediocrity. For us, compromising was never an option. In building a vertical city or skyscraper, we knew that structural integrity had to be engrained within our walls. We’ve studied the construction methodologies used centuries ago, the foundation of which is reflected in all our projects. From the making of the tallest and most sophisticated residential building in Banana Island, the 15-floor LucreziaBySujimoto, an ultra-luxurious edifice with magnificent maisonettes and two of Africa’s best designed penthouses, to the meticulous design of LeonardoBySujimoto waterfront project, a 25-storey vertical city development nested in Africa’s most exclusive neighborhood-Banana Island’s next most luxurious project, LeonardoBySujimoto. Designed to last more than a century Personally, I guarantee that the Lucrezia, as well as our other audacious projects: The Leonardo, The Queen Amina mixed-use project Located in the prime neighborhood of Abuja, and the Sujimoto Twin Towers (STT) – an audacious 44-storey, first-of-its-kind, one-of-a-kind tower deemed to be the tallest twin tower in Africa, are among an array of high-rise buildings designed to stand for the next 200 years. The reason we have this authority is because we have consulted with the best hands. We’ve brought on board a household of experts ranging from the best designers to the highest-ranking engineers and architects in vertical structure, a team of engineers who have designed 50-100-storey buildings both in Singapore and Dubai. We visited Dubai to study the Burj Khalifa, a building that has been designed to last for over 1000 years. We have also meticulously studied the types of underground infrastructures that make up their foundation, the piles, as well as the concrete type utilized in erecting the 500,000 tonnes maga structure. We didn’t just stop there, back home in Nigeria, we work with Sanni, Ojo & Partners (SOP) one of the best structural engineering companies in Nigeria, not only to be our local engineering partner but also to supervise and be instrumental in the execution of each slab and columns. At Sujimoto, we are not your usual real estate development firms; we pride ourselves as luxury bricklayers. We are very attentive to the type of sand we use, the quality of blocks, the quality of cement, and the quality of steel being used for our projects. We go the extra mile in contracting third party professionals who are mandated to carry out checks and balances on our projects and team of workers, ensuring we maintain our core values of addiction to quality and the quest to achieving the best in structural integrity. We invest a lot of research in making sure our buildings are designed to meet the highest standards, which is why I, Dr. Olasijibomi Ogundele, personally guarantee the Nigerian public that our buildings will last over 200 years. We would like to commend the efforts of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, and Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) for the amazing work being carried out to ensure buildings being constructed are in accordance with the ethics of structural integrity. I would like to extend my utmost respect to the Permanent Secretary, Engr. Oluwole Sotire, who worked endlessly while I was in his office at 10:00 p.m. on Friday. I saw his resilience and his unwavering commitment to excellence, ensuring the housing and infrastructure sectors thrive on a pedestal of global standard. Dr. Olasijibomi Ogundele is the Managing Director of Sujimoto Group, the Czar of Luxury Real Estate Development, and the mastermind developer behind the renowned Giuliano. Our other audacious projects, such as; the most sophisticated building in Banana Island, LucreziaBySujimoto, the grandiose Sujimoto Twin Tower, -the tallest twin towers in Africa; the regal Queen Amina by Sujimoto, a monument to royal affluence; the magnificent high-rise LeonardoBySujimoto; Nigeria’s No. 1 most affordable luxury housing – Ìlú Titun, and Africa’s most exclusive waterfront townhouses GiovanniBySujimoto, some of which have etched an indelible imprint on Nigeria’s skylines, a testament to their unrivaled mastery of modern day engineering. This article was inspired by Mr. Benny Opazo, an astounding individual who has consistently reminded me of the importance of integrity; not only in oneself but in the structures we put in place.