Tottenham Hotspur forward Richarlison allegedly remains on the radar of Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti.Ahead of his expected exit from Everton last summer, Richarlison was naturally attracting interest from a wide array of clubs due to his efforts at Goodison Park. The Brazil international ultimately took the decision to make the switch to Spurs, linking up with Antonio Conte where he was expected to live up to his £60m price-tag. Instead, the 26-year-old has endured a dismal campaign, contributing just three goals and three assists in the Premier League and Champions League from 16 starts and 16 substitute appearances. Richarlison scored as many goals in four starts at the World Cup than he has for Spurs, and the current plan is for him to improve under whoever is handed the reins at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. However, the situation is complicated by the uncertainty over Harry Kane’s future – who has prevented Richarlison operating down the middle of the Spurs attack – and the club facing the prospect of missing out on European football for 2023-24. As it stands, it appears highly unlikely that chairman Daniel Levy will make any decision over Richarlison in the short or long term until he has gathered the opinion of Conte’s permanent successor. Nevertheless, according to Defensa Central, Richarlison continues to have admirers at Real, including his former boss Ancelotti. The report claims that Ancelotti, whose future at the Bernabeu remains up in the air, has asked president Florentino Perez to give consideration to making a fresh bid for Richarlison over the coming weeks. POLL While Karim Benzema remains the clear first choice down the centre, Real are lacking recognised backup and Mariano Diaz will also depart the club on a free transfer at the end of June. Although a big-money bid for long-term Kylian Mbappe is not expected to materialise during the next transfer window, Los Blancos require an alternative to Benzema who will turn 36 years of age in December. Having worked with Richarlison at Everton, Ancelotti is said to be a fan of the player’s ability and versatility, and Richarlison would theoretically become backup to all three positions in the front three. With Richarlison possessing a contract until 2027, Spurs may demand that Real meet the full £60m that they paid last year if they are to contemplate a surprise sale.