A Federal High Court sit­ting in Kano has denied nullifying the candida­ture of the Abia Gover­nor-elect, Dr Alex Otti. The court, however, said it nullified the election of the can­didates for Kano Labour Party (LP) that contested during the 2023 General Election. Saturday INDEPENDENT re­calls that Ibrahim Haruna-Ibra­him had filed an application ask­ing the court to revoke and set aside the certificate of return is­sued to all LP candidates declared winners in Kano and the 35 states of the Federation, including the FCT, Abuja. However, following the mixed reactions that have trailed the judgement, Justice Nasir-Yunu­sa affirmed that the candidates in Abia who took part in the just-concluded general elections were not parties in the suit. Nasir-Yunusa said the court declared only the primary elec­tion of the Labour Party in Kano State null and void. “This court lacks jurisdiction to make an order for the issuance of certificate of return. “They are at liberty to seek re­dress in the appropriate division of the court,” he said. He said INEC was bound to insist receiving the registered members of the first respondent and that of other political parties 30 days before primary election in compliance with section 77(3) of the electoral act 2022. POLL Meanwhile, the media was awash on Friday with the news of how Dr. Alex Otti, Gover­nor-elect of Abia State and all the candidates of the Labour Party in Kano and other states for allegedly failing to comply with the provisions of the 2022 Electoral Act. The Court in Suit No FHC/ KN/CS/107/2023 filed by Mr. Ibrahim Haruna Ibrahim against the Labour Party (LP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) ruled that the failure of the Labour Party to submit its membership reg­ister to the INEC within 30days before their Primaries renders the process invalid. “The party that has not com­plied with the provisions of the Electoral Act cannot be said to have candidate in an election and cannot be declared winner of an election this being so, the votes credited to the 1st defendant is a wasted Vote as the decision of the Supreme Court,” the Judge ruled. A source close to the Abia governor-elect, however told our correspondent that he is not per­turbed by the pronouncement, stressing that it is merely an exparte motion, without conse­quential effect. According to the source, Exparte motions are often granted by judges in extreme cas­es without the defendant being in court of being served necessary notice. It normally lasts for only 14 days after the party affected by the order has applied for the order to be varied or discharged. Otti, has also spoken on the de­velopment and urged Abians not to panic over his purported sack by a Federal High Court in Kano, saying there is no cause for alarm over the kangaroo judgement. Otti said arrangements for his swearing- in on May 29 were on full gear as planned, declaring that the antics of the enemies of democracy cannot truncate the will of Abians. This is as the Labour Party has dismissed the said judgment as a waste of time. Reacting to the pronounce­ment, Inibehe Effiong, a human rights lawyer described the said judgment as shocking, saying the judgement cannot stop the swear­ing-in of Alex Otti on May 29. Through his verified twit­ter handle: @InibeheEffiong, Inibehe Effiong wrote: “based on this Judgment Order, this case was filed on the 11th day of May, 2023. “Alex Otti emerged as the gubernatorial candidate of LP during primaries held in June 2022. Section 285 of the Consti­tution states that all pre-election matters must be filed within 14 days of event. “A case relating to election is either a pre-election matter or a post-election matter (election petition). “If the case filed by Ibrahim Haruna Ibrahim at the Federal High Court in Kano was/is a pre-election matter, it should have been filed within 14 days of the primaries. “How can a court assume ju­risdiction in a matter that is in­disputably statute barred? This is shocking.”