ENUGU – Nsukka Youths Association ( NYA) in Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State has prayed for God’s intervention to stop incessant untimely deaths among youths in the area. Preaching during the prayer session organised by (NYA) on Sunday at Nsukka Town Hall, Rev. Fr. Paul Obayi, the Spiritual Director of Okunerere Adoration Ministry Nsukka, Obayi said that, most untimely deaths were as a result of youths abandoning God their creator and living careless life. He said that most youths now were more interested in making quick money and other earthly things rather than surrendering their entire life to God who had the power to protect them. “The only way for youths to be safe from untimely death is for them to surrender their life to God because He is the only one that can protect and give long life “It’s unfortunate that many youths have abandoned God and submitted themselves to demonic alters for protection and get questionable wealth without knowing that those powers are fake, temporal and have grave consequences. “As a youth, if you want to live long draw yourself closer to God and be prayerful because this world is full of evils. Obayi who is a Catholic priest known for delivering people with demonic attacks, and destroying evil altars and shrines advised youths to always respect and honour God in all they do.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” It’s profitable and safe to put your life in the hands of God Almighty than to depend your life on diabolic charms, evil alters, cults and evil people,” he said. POLL The powerful man of God commended the leadership of NYA, for seeking the face of God to put an end to untimely deaths among youths in the area. “I commend NYA for knowing that real power to life, as well as long life, belongs to God. “You will have worsen the situation if you have decided to go from one native doctor to another to look for solution,”he said. Also preaching, Evang. Onyekachi Omeke of Shepherd Ministry, Enugu, admonished youths to be obedient to the words of God, Onyekachi identified sin, wrong association, carelessness, causes and evil covenants as some of the factors responsible for untimely death. “You have to be careful the life you live, watch about those you call your friends because some of them are in a demonic mission to destroy and waste your life. “As a youth, you must obey and be guided by the tradition, norms and good name of your family, because most times doing evil things that bring shame to the family can also attract untimely death. Earlier in a remake, Comrade Onyekachi Omeje, the President of NYA said that, the youth group decided to organise the prayer session to seek God’s intervention in order to stop the incessant untimely death of youths from the area. “This prayer session is to seek God’s intervention, ask for forgiveness so that God who is the Alpha and Omega will put to an end this untimely deaths among Nsukka youths that had put many families in grief and sorrow. According to Omeje, no fewer than four youths from the area have died untimely since the beginning of this year.