Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has unveiled a technology solution known as Product Authentication Mark (PAM), to curb influx of substandard products into the Nigerian market. Malam Farouk Salim, the Director-General of SON, stated this at a sensitisation meeting with stakeholders in Port Harcourt. He said the technology is also to ensure that all imported and manufactured products meet requirements of the relevant standards. According to Salim, PAM is a digital technology to complement SON’s conformity assessment and manufacturers’ conformity assessment in furtherance of the fight against substandard and counterfeit products in Nigeria. He noted that inspite of efforts of the organisation; substandard products were still being imported and distributed throughout the country through smuggling and use of SON stickers on non-certified products. The Director General said that PAM which has been launched in Lagos and other parts of the country. “The authentication of products through PAM would block smugglers from importing or manufacturing substandard products in Nigeria. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “SON will continue to facilitate trade, to ensure that importers and manufacturers products meet the required standards around the world. The PAM will also help consumers detect and reject substandard goods in the market, also increase productivity, employment of labour, wealth creation and improve security of lives and properties,” he said. POLL Salim urged consumers to check online authenticity of the products they want to buy in the market to ascertain fake, clone and counterfeit products. He also advised importers whose products are registered and certified with SONCAP as well as those whose products were registered and certified to SONCAP to apply online for issuance of PAM stickers. Also speaking, Mr Tersoo Orngudwem, Director Product Certification, SON, said the product would enable manufacturers to sell and identify their products easily in the market as well as help consumers buy products that would give them value of their money. According to him, the PAM stickers are for imported products, while local manufactures could also register to get the stickers if they want to authenticate their goods in the market. Orngudwem advised importers and consumers to go to Apple store, IOS, or Play store to search for PAM by SON, ensuring they see SON logo, download the application and install on their devices. He urged stakeholders to order for PAM stickers through SON website https://pam.songov. ng/login, order for PAM stamps using SONCAP certificate, payment and selection of delivery locations by courier.