ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday expressed confidence that from the foundation laid by his administration, the incoming federal government will build the country of the dreams of Nigerians. Buhari stated this while addressing the new governors-elect and the returning ones, at the 2023 Induction Programme organized by the Nigerian Governor’s Forum (NGF), which held at Presidential Villa, Aso Rock Abuja. Represented at the occasion by Ibrahim Gambari, the Chief of Staff to the President, Buhari said allthough the road has been bumpy due to a challenging fiscal climate, he is proud to state that his administration has built a firm foundation for a prosperous Nigeria, as he leaves office in about two weeks. “We have made steady progress since we took office in 2015. The road has been bumpy due to a challenging fiscal climate, but I am proud to state as we leave office in about two weeks that we have built a firm foundation for a prosperous Nigeria. We could not have done everything, but we focused on a number of areas: Infrastructure, Agriculture and strengthening our Armed Forces. “1 am very confident that from the foundation we have laid, the incoming federal government will build on our legacies in ensuring that we continue to build the country of our dreams. Congratulations to all of you and good luck in the days and years ahead” he said. President Buhari further enjoined the NGF to continue to promote ideals that will address the challenges of democracy and governance in country, adding that the role of the Sub-nationals is critical in our Socio-Economic development as a nation. “On May 29, you will be called upon to steer the affairs of your States for the next four years. From this day you become wholly responsible for the state as an enterprise. You as the Governor or State Chief Executive inherit all its assets and liabilities. The assumption of office is a constitutional process that we must take with utmost dedication, in the light of the trust bestowed on you by those who elected you into office. “One interesting development that we all saw from the last election is that the electorate is maturing, and people are increasingly finding their voices. Any public officer who fails to either meet up with the expectations of the people or deliver on his campaign promises would be voted out in the next election. That is what democracy is about. Deliver or get shown the door out. POLL “I enjoin the Forum to promote ideals that will address the challenges of democracy and governance in our country today. The role of the Sub-nationals is critical in our Socio-Economic development as a nation. Your proximity to the people gives you the privilege to have an instant pulse on their needs and challenges and yours is to devise creative and judicious means of addressing the myriad of issues that confront them daily. “As returning or incoming State Executives you also must be cognizant of the comparative advantages inherent in each of your states, and how you can form partnerships with each other, by leveraging your various strengths while recognizing that there is no one size fits all solutions. “I also bid you to take this opportunity to unite across party divides to put the country first. Nigerians desire peace, progress and security. A country where they have access to quality education, health and social services. Your ability to champion these values significantly impacts the atmosphere where in the delivery of social goods and services will be conducted efficiently and harmoniously. “We have made steady progress since we took office in 2015. The road has been bumpy due to a challenging fiscal climate, but I am proud to state as we leave office in about two weeks that we have built a firm foundation for a prosperous Nigeria. We could not have done everything, but we focused on a number of areas: Infrastructure, Agriculture and strengthening our Armed Forces. “Despite the difficult fiscal conditions, we remained committed to our promises. These key areas were strategically targeted. Our focus on Infrastructure was to improve access to markets, improved linkages and to reduce overall supply chain costs. This singular commitment to infrastructure development for roads, rails, airports, ports and affordable housing were designed to create better means of livelihood for our people and facilitate access to jobs. I am happy that we are succeeding in investing the nation’s wealth in every State of the federation and a clear path for sustainable development has been set. “Our various interventions in agriculture ensured that we reduced our food import bill while increasing domestic production and even expansion of critical export crops. This deliberate policy was especially necessary as Covidforced shutdown led to an increase in global food prices, and whilst we experienced some spike, we nonetheless were better able to contend with the food crises. “Our Men and Women of the Armed Forces have through their gallant actions and sacrifices ensured that our territorial integrity remains intact; and they continue with laser focus to combat what remains of significantly degraded enemies of the state, and there shall be no letting on until peace and stability returns to our nation. As foundin the oath I took, I shall continue to support their efforts with improved resources and modern warfare equipment to enhance their abilities” he stated.