According to journalist Toni Juanmarti, Barcelona have reached total consensus within the club over the signing of Atletico Madrid winger Yannick Carrasco in the summer. The 29-year-old has been heavily linked with a move to Barça since the January transfer window. The Blaugrana tried to bring him in during the winter itself as a replacement for Memphis Depay, who moved to Atletico, but the transfer did not materialise. However, Barcelona were able to secure a purchase option worth €15-20 million for Carrasco, which they can trigger to sign him this summer. While they might have had secured the option on the Belgian international, there were still some doubts over a possible swoop for him. However, as per Juanmarti, the La Liga champions have now reached total consensus regarding Carrasco’s signing after being left impressed by his performances in the second half of the 2022/23 season. In all competitions this term, the Belgian has made 43 appearances, scoring ten goals and setting up five. His tally is an improvement on the numbers posted by Barcelona forwards like Ansu Fati and Ferran Torres, who are linked with summer exits. As such, Carrasco is seen as the priority to reinforce the left flank this summer and there is now a total agreement among those within the club about signing the Atletico Madrid winger. However, Barcelona are not alone in pursuit of the forward as he is attracting interest from clubs in the Premier League as well. POLL But it has been previously suggested that Carrasco will not listen to any offers as he wants to join the Blaugrana, which gives them the edge in negotiations over Atletico Madrid. Fresh contacts have not been established between the two teams as of yet. But what seems to be clear is that Barcelona will go for Carrasco’s signing, but will not pay the initially agreed price for him and look to negotiate a lower fee. If they are unsuccessful in signing the 29-year-old, Xavi Hernandez & co. could then turn to Ez Abde as the solution for the left flank.