LAGOS – The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Earlybrite, Mr Victor Tubotamuno, on Friday, urged the federal government to increase investment in education through strategic partnerships with Education Technology (EdTech) companies in the country. Tubotamuno said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos ahead of the 2023 Children’s Day celebration on Saturday. Earlybrite is an EdTech company, which Tubotamuno said was committed to revolutionising education and empowering young learners through innovative digital solutions. He noted that technology had the potential to transform schools, hence, the government-EdTech collaboration was important to ensure the advancement of education and a brighter future for generations to come. “As society rapidly evolves in the digital age, education must keep pace with the changing needs of students. “EdTech companies like Earlybrite have been at the forefront of this revolution, developing cutting-edge platforms and tools that foster engagement, enhance learning outcomes and empower students to unlock their full potential. “By leveraging the power of technology, these companies offer a diverse range of educational resources and personalised learning experiences that cater to individual needs and foster critical thinking, creativity and collaboration,” he said. According to him, investing in education is investing in the future of the nation and as such government’s partnership with EdTech companies would unlock many benefits for schools and students. POLL The Earlybrite CEO said the collaboration would enable schools to access state-of-the-art learning technologies, equip teachers with the necessary digital tools and training. Tubotamuno added that such partnership would also provide students with immersive educational experiences that prepared them for the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century. He explained that through collaborative efforts, the government and EdTech companies could address key challenges in education. The Tech expert listed such challenges as access to quality education in underserved communities, teacher-student ratios and the integration of technology into the classroom. Tubotamuno noted that by pooling resources, expertise and innovation, the educational divide would be bridged and a level playing field created for all students, regardless of their socio-economic backgrounds. “Education is the cornerstone of progress and empowerment. “By joining forces with EdTech companies, the government has an incredible opportunity to revolutionise education and shape a brighter future for our children. “We envision a world where every child has access to high-quality education, teachers are equipped with the tools they need and students are empowered to become lifelong learners and innovators,” he said. According to him, by investing in education and collaborating with EdTech companies, the government can pave way for a holistic and inclusive education system that nurtures the talents and aspirations of all students. (NAN).