The Egbema Political Forum has congratulated Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, Governor-elect of Delta State on his victory at the court of appeal, Abuja. On Friday 5th May, 2023, the Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja, had dismissed a pre-election appeal filed by Chief Ikie Aghwarianovwe, seeking the disqualification of Delta State Governor elect, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori. Chief Ikie had filed a suit sometime in October 2022, alleging that Rt. Hon. Oborevwori submitted false documents to INEC to aide his qualification for 2019 House of Assembly election in Delta State. Chief Ikie further claimed that as a result of the alleged forged documents, Rt. Hon. Oborevwori was not qualified to contest the Delta State 2023 gubernatorial election. In a congratulatory message signed by Apostle Sunny Jero and Ambassador Jude Ebitimi Ukori, Chairman and Secretary of EPF respectively, on Saturday, said the judgement delivered by the Court of Appeal affirms that the rule of law is meant to protect the will of the people in a free and fair electioneering process. They also urged the governor-elect to work with former PDP aspirants and candidates of other parties who are willing to support him for the development of the state. “The Appeal Court decision stood for the vital proposition that the rule of law serves to protect the sovereign will of the people when expressed in free and honest elections,” said EPF. “Congratulations to Delta State Governor-elect, Sheriff Oborevwori and his Deputy, Monday Onyeme, for the Court of Appeal judgment affirming the qualification of Oborevwori and the overwhelming victory in the governorship election in the state. “By this judgement, the appellate court clearly shows that Governor-elect, Oborevwori was eminently qualified as PDP candidates who the people of Delta state chose to pilot their affairs for the next four years. POLL The confidence the people repose in the Oborevwori through the poll has been well earned and should be wholly respected. “It is time to now place partisan politics on the shelf for the moment so that these former political contestants can join hands as much as possible for the good and development of Delta State. “Once again, we rejoice with the Governor-elect, Oborevwori, our teeming PDP members in Delta and, indeed, the good people of the state over this court victory.”