In the advent of new technologies, there is a genetic DNA machine that can help African Americans or blacks living abroad detect their origin and a lot of people are being sent back here to the Yoruba region, most of them want to see the land and know their roots. This is the major reason the Asojú Àsà Oodua and representative of His Imperial Majesty, Ooni of Ife; Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi in the United States of America, Ambassador ALFRED OLADOTUN TAYLOR embarked on project titled TAKE ME HOME under his auspicious vacationer outfit Ilekoko. ‘Dotun Taylor as the face of Oduduwa his primary assignment in the United State is to enlighten those who are of Yoruba descent in America during the era of the slave trade, most of the blacks ferried abroad were from Ghana, Togo and Nigeria, majority were actually captured at the coastal areas to lead them back to the Yorubaland. In this interview with BOLATITO ADEBOLA, he talks about his position to promote Yoruba Culture to western world and help bring back home sons and daughters of Yoruba descent around world. You recently brought some immigrants to Nigeria, are they for tourist? Yes, I brought some Afro-Americans for Nigeria tourism which is a business that I do. I have a vacationer company called Ile-Koko, I brought these tourists to Nigeria, to trace their roots, which is what the company basically do, helping to trace and identifying their roots. They are basically African Americans right now and have the advantage of having a strong DNA and why you could check their DNA, you will know where their ancestors are from Africa. These can lead them to become good ambassadors of African continent. So we brought these Americans who are already very curious and aware of their African roots. So these are people who are willing to trace their roots. What was the moment experience when the American tourists met the Ooni and visit the ancient places in Ife? Those moments are unforgettable, because it was a beautiful and awesome experience. Some of them (Americans) went into trance by touching the Opa Oranmiyan and some of those that cried. You know, it was ecstatic actually, particularly when only a few can trace their ancestral roots. The Ooni told them that he can trace over 60 of his own generations and they know they cannot trace more than two or three generations. There is no African American that can trace more than two or three of their generation, only their fathers and grandfathers. They really do not know where they came from until the scientific discovery that points them towards that direction. How often do you do this and what is always the feedback? POLL I had the launch of my company last Olojo Festival in Île-Ìfé, last September, I launched the company. I’ve always been doing tourism in that regards. Though the feedback had been so beautiful and very wonderful, this is the second edition and so far about 10 to 15 Afro-Americans have come with us from the United States to experienced beauty of Yoruba Culture and find their root. This project encapsulates what the Take Me Home is about which has a movie as well? I used that same title for this for the first quarter trip, because we are planning to have another one towards the Olojo Festival which is coming up in September 2023. Can you shed more light on ‘Take Me Home’ movie and the production stage it is now? The movie was majorly filmed in Hollywood studios and in Ile Ife in Osun State, Nigeria. It has mainly three Nigerian actors. They are Lateef Adedimeji who had to travel from Nigeria to Hollywood to play his role, Bayo Bankole of the Boy Alinco fame and I played a cameo role though I’m not an actor. We have shot entirely all of it. Right now, we are in post-production stage where we are doing sound design and all that. And it’s also being edited by a Hollywood editing outfit. We are looking at it being in the cinemas during the Halloween in November because it is technically a Horror Comedy and it is actually centered around the Halloween experience in the United States. We have the main actors, Hollywood actors, like Mefi Black, Dave Sheridan, Amber Rivette, Felissa Rose and others. So what is unique about the movie? I like to inform you that I choose to tell stories as a historian and my medium of expression is movie making because I know I can reach more people. So I believe as a story teller, the movie was written for both audiences and Nigerians will get to watch the movie and love it. So the information about the African and Nigerian artifacts which are scattered around the world, that is the message. So I believe I carry a message. And this message comes out in everything, music, arts, any kind of arts, even the tourism I am doing. I’m not bringing people to Lagos only because I want them to go to clubs; I am bringing people to Lagos and Ife because I want them to experience culture. How did you manage Ooni on set was deliberate and this is his first appearance in a movie? First of all, my Kabiyesi, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi seems to be human, he’s young and versatile, his father worked with BCOS as communicator, so he’s familiar with production of filming, with lights and cameras. He writes some of the scripts of his own documentaries by himself. So it wasn’t difficult to put him on the spotlight. The Ooni is not an actor as he only made an appearance in the movie. And it’s not strange to me because I know that the Queen of England appeared in James Bond movie. So he only took a scene in a movie and the crew and casts were able to pull it off. As regards screening in Nigeria, we are talking to all the distributors because what is the essence of making a movie if no one watches it? So Take Me Home is coming to all Cinemas. The production cost of the movie, since its Hollywood standard? Since the beginning of this production more than $100,000USD has been spent so far with post-production and still not yet done, since we’re filmed in Hollywood, and we have to go the Hollywood way. As Filmmaker, what exactly inspired you to do the movie; Take Me Home? I’m not a filmmaker; I’m a historian who now chooses film as a medium of expression, which means I’m like not to make a random action movie except it has historical perspective, which means the motivate all the time has always been culture. And also it’s a story of the repatriation of Africa arts. I’m Yoruba ambassador so immediately I saw the story i decided this is what i should do. As an Historian, this your first attempt or have you done so before? I’ve produced a couple of films; I used to anchor a radio show while I was here in Nigeria. I have written a couple of books. So if I did not have film, I would use the microphone. If I did not have the microphone, i will write. So candidly I mean it that I am not a filmmaker, but I just use these mediums because I can manipulate them to tell the stories I want to tell. First of all, I want to tell a story. I don’t mind the medium. As a Yoruba culture ambassador, what is the most intriguing thing about the culture for foreigners or literally for the US citizens and other foreigners you have come across? The size of the Yoruba people around the world, mostly the Yoruba culture is a transcontinental culture. It’s real surprise that there are more people of Yoruba descent in the diaspora and more than the number in West Africa. For instance, Yoruba is the second official language of Brazil and there are over 100million people who are of Yoruba descent in Brazil, and there just about 65 million here in Nigeria, which means a larger number even in Diaspora, and most of them are in Cuba, Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela, California. So I came to actually realize that although this is the source where everything started but there are a lot of Yoruba people in Europe and Yoruba culture is everywhere in the world, but interestingly a lot of us don’t even know each other. We don’t know and we cannot because some of them have already been colonized by the Spanish people. So they don’t know the ones that have been colonized by the English people. And the ones that were announced by the French don’t know the ones colonized by the Portuguese. So we’re larger than we really think the size or number of Yoruba descent around the world. It is possible to give specific figure in the United States? When we say Yoruba people, I’m not talking about people who have migrated out of Nigeria by choice to go seek livelihood in the United States. I have not been sent to those, i have been sent to people of Afro-American descent. People of the children of slaves or the people who are Yorubas that leave in the diaspora after the world broke and divided so in that population we’re talking about over 500 million people. These people you’re talking about did you get to meet by chance or is it as a result of them tracing their roots back to the Yoruba people? An average Afro-American is concerned about with the question; WHO AM I? The question that remains in his or her mind, because probably he or she in the country for generations, they deliberately didn’t tell them, where their great grandparents were stolen from slaves. So there’s this need right now and now that the science is available and that’s what they call the ancestral DNA, they check their blood and it tells them your 70% Yoruba; or 60% from West-Africa. So when they know that of course the natural thing is looking for how to find their way down to West Africa and Ile-Ife being the cradle of Yoruba Land. Your love for history as Yoruba Cultural Ambassador is impeccable, Is there a background story to this? I’ve BA in history from the University of Ilorin. Apparently I always wanted to tell stories, that I chose to study history to be a better storyteller and I fell in love with history while I was studying in Ilorin. So since then, I’ve taken interest in history and culture and more reason, the Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II gave me the platform as the Asoju Asa Oodua of Yorubaland in the United States to promote and showcase the beauty of the Yoruba culture to the world with my little efforts, people across the globe have been able to experience and appreciate the rich cultural heritage of the Yoruba people. It has been critical in connecting the Yoruba people in the United States with their roots and fostering a greater understanding and appreciation of Yoruba culture. This would not have been possible without the support and encouragement of the Ooni of Ife, who recognized the passion for promoting Yoruba culture and gave the opportunity to make a difference on a global scale. Ooni as the cradle of Yorubaland, through his dedication and commitment, the Yoruba culture has been able to reach a wider audience, and more people are gaining insight into the history, traditions, and customs of one of Nigeria’s most prominent ethnic groups.