Arch. Chijioke Okoye, the newly elected chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Ihiala local government area of Anambra state, has stated that contrary to false reports and misleading information about insecurity in Ihiala, he said Ihiala is very peaceful with a very tranquil atmosphere for the people. Okoye who was a consensus option at the Congress, noted that Ihiala is known for her hospitality and security for her people and visitors alike. That pockets of problems in the area were perpetrated by hoodlums and criminal elements from neighbouring Imo state. He said because Ihiala is a border local government area due to some communities with very close proximity to Imo state, daredevil criminal elements catch in on the closeness and infiltrate the council area causing havock and creating false impression of the council area. In spite of the external aggressions, Okoye believes that Ihiala is still very peaceful especially as he was grateful to Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo for his relentless onslaughts on the criminal elements. He said, ” We have a lot of security challenges in Ihiala local government area. But these security challenges come from neighbouring states. You know Ihiala is a boundary local government area with Imo state; so all the atrocities you see today in Ihiala are from Imo state. Ihiala local government is a very peaceful local government. We don’t have the conscience to kill our fellow human being. People come into Ihiala from Imo state to commit heinous crimes and we condemn it in its entirety. I must commend the Governor of Anambra state Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo for his proactive response to security especially in Ihiala local government area.” The new Ihiala APGA chairman also informed that more efforts were in place to achieve watertight security in Ihiala as communities were currently having security meetings inorder to secure the boundaries from whence the criminals invade Ihiala local government to cause confusion and chaos, adding that in no distant time Ihiala will be completely free again.