JOY ANIGBOGU The prolonged frosty relationship of former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George with the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has compelled some Lagos State elders to seek the reconciliation of the two leaders. George has been a major critic of Tinubu over the years and has even threatened to go on exile at a point if the former Lagos State governor becomes Nigeria’s president. During an interview in one of the newspapers, the Atona Oodua of Yorubaland was asked that since Tinubu has been declared the president-elect, did he trust that he (Tinubu) would be able to deliver on his campaign promises, he quickly responded, “I don’t live inside him. I don’t know what he will deliver. Based on my perception of what he did in my state here, I wish Nigeria the best of luck. I don’t put my money on a dark horse, no. I will not. When asked if he would be giving Tinubu the needed support as his kinsman, he also said “If all issues are resolved judiciously in the court of law and he becomes the President, I wish him the best. If there is no manipulation and they are convinced beyond reasonable doubt that he won the election, I wish him the best of luck. I wish Nigeria the best of luck. I am almost 80 years old, what am I still looking for that Almighty God has not granted me? I thank God for my life. I have also put 25 years each in the military and politics so that is 50 years of my life in the public domain. There is no part of Nigeria that is not worthy to live in so what is the problem that we are self-inflicting pains on ourselves? The PDP leader has always made it very clear that he does not have any personal grudges with the President-elect and that he was only concerned about the state of things in his state Lagos which Tinubu has been in control for over two decades, eight years as governor and the rest as a political godfather who determines who gets what in the state. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ George on his part has faulted the way Lagos State has been administered and has repeatedly said that with the kind of revenue that the commercial capital of Nigeria generates, the state should be better developed than it is. POLL He has been very vocal about his position, and some persons especially those on the ruling part have viewed him as been too critical of All Progressives Congress (APC) led government in Lagos State. But some elders in Lagos State felt that enough of all of that, at least for the sake of the progress of Lagos State, stressing that they had come together, not as politicians but as elders of Lagos State to seek the progress of the state. They met over the weekend with the PDP leader and urged him to support and collaborate with Tinubu as he assumed office on May 29. The outcome of the meeting to reconcile George and Tinubu was brokered by a former judge of the Lagos State High Court, Justice Ishola Olorunnimbe (retd). The meeting, with closed door and lasted for over four hours, dragging into the night, it also had in attendance leader of the Governance Advisory Council (GAC), the apex leadership of the party in Lagos State, Prince Tajudeen Olusi; the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, two other former Lagos State Deputy Governors, Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele and Prince Abiodun Ogunleye. Others present are former acting Secretary of the PDP, Chief Remi Akitoye; former Minister of Communications, Major General Tajudeen Olarenwaju (retd); Chief Gbadebo Dallas, Mrs Onikepo Oshodi, among others. Speaking after the meeting, Chief George commended the elders for the peace parley adding that it is a positive step towards a new Lagos. On the request made by the APC leaders urging him to cease further fire against Tinubu, the PDP leader said he has nothing personal against the President-elect. “Let me say there are no political differences. Justice Olorunnimbe is like a father, we respect our fathers in Lagos. When I got an invitation from Papa Olusi that he wanted to come and see me for the first time, I told my friend who delivered the message that I should go and visit him and not the other way round. But Papa Olusi said said he had to come and see and that it had to do with the situation in Lagos. “This is the second time Papa Olusi is visiting. We had detailed discussions that bothered on the unity of Lagos. I must say we re-established the fact that the culture of Lagos is to accept and accommodate other tribes. “Secondly, on the details of us working together, because a divided house will be a defeated house, I have explained to Baba Olusi that there is no problem about working together. The kind of platform we are trying to have is for a unity of purpose in Lagos State, irrespective of party affiliations. On the bottom line, you are a Lagosian though we can different political affiliations. “Now, they came for three things: they talked about the running battle I had with Tinubu and I have said I absolutely have no battle, nothing personal between him and I. “What has happened has gone, vengeance is not mine but the Almighty God. We will have differences, we will disagree but we must not be disagreeable. “They made a request which we are all looking at. They requested that someday we should also congratulate Asiwaju and we said yes, but that I belong to a political party. They are all in the courts now. Let us finish the court cases. Whichever way that goes, the issue of congratulating him or not will come to fruition. I have nothing personal and nothing happens without the almighty God. As a believer, that is my school of thought. “This union and discussion we have had is a positive step towards a new Lagos Speaking on the purpose of their visit, Chief Olusi noted that the meeting was to seek the collaboration of George and other elders for the development of Lagos State. He said: “This is a gathering of eminent Lagosians and this is my second coming to meet with Chief Olabode George. The president-elect of Nigeria is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, he was a former Senator from Lagos but we know that the relationship between the President-elect and Chief Olabode George is not cordial. We think it is important that as leaders of the community, we should take steps to improve the relationship. Therefore, I got an appointment with Chief George on May 1, 2023 to discuss and request for a further meeting. “I also requested that a former justice in Lagos State, Justice Olorunnimbe (retd) be here to put his elderly posture as well as his experience in ensuring that we have a cordial discussion with Chief Bode George. “The meeting has been cordial and useful; and I can tell you that we have agreed on the mission of this delegation that we, in Lagos with Chief Bode George, should give our support to the President-elect as soon as he assumes office on May 29 as the president of Nigeria for the good of Lagos and betterment of the country. That is the purpose of our discussion and it has been successful.” Also speaking, Justice Olorunnimbe (retd), who brokered the peace parley, described the meeting as fruitful. Olorunnimbe said: “The discussion was cordial, frank and interesting. There is a consensus that we, as leaders of the community must cooperate. Chief Bode George, in his usual human approach hosted us and we had a fruitful discussion which will benefit all of us. “Let me make it known that this is not a political meeting but a meeting of elders of the Lagos community, discussing with another elder statesman, who all of us have great respect for.”