The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ambrose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma Chapter, has described the alarm of a N2bn tax fraud in the University and other allegations of anomalies raised by the Special Intervention Team (SIT) as a ploy to win itself more into the mind or heart of the visitor to the University so as to maintain its grip on the administration of the University. AAU ASUU in a statement titled, “Interim Report By AAU, Ekpoma Special Intervention Team (SIT): Matters Arising” and signed by Dr. Cyril Oziegbe Onogbosele and Dr. Willam Odion, Chairperson and   Assistant Secretary respectively of ASUU, AAU, Ekpoma stated that all the claims by the SIT, especially the tax issue are to cover up for its on-going malfeasance in the University because that is what the visitor wants to hear. According to the statement, “Come to think of it!  Are the Lecturers in charge of tax collection for the government? Who are the government appointees responsible for tax collection and remittance? Why were they not named?  It is not true that the staff Unions in the university resisted the university authorities in payment of tax. Taxes of staff are deducted by the University Administration directly when salaries are paid and are reflected in the pay slips”. “In fact, Professors in AAU, Ekpoma pay one of the highest tax as much as N78,000 per month. Considering the serious criminal nature of tax evasion or fraud, why have they not been arrested and charged to court, the union asked. The Union insists that if there is this “massive” tax fraud in the University one would have expected the report to disclose the name and identity of the officers/staff involved, the action taken by the SIT and their prosecution in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations of the University or in accordance with the law of the state. “It should not be a matter of mere general allegation, as is being portrayed by the SIT and we the Union condemns any attempt to use a purported tax fraud to blackmail and rubbish the collective integrity of staff of the University. “We task and encourage the State Government to prove the veracity of a tax fraud in the University by arresting and prosecuting those involved without further delay. “The claim of a new discovery of theft of all IGRs and school fees in the University is insincere, hypocritical, self-serving and diversionary. “The Union is baffled by the disposition of the State Government in feigning ignorance as if it was the first time it will receive report on what has become the unfortunate norm and continuing criminal looting of the finances of the University by the appointees of Government in the University.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The Visitor to the University may wish to recall that the Union had, hitherto, written several memoranda on the need to intervene or direct the relevant organs of the University on matter of corrupt practices which include financial improprieties, impunity, abuse of due process and law in the University. POLL “In fact, the grave concern for financial probity and accountability in relation to the University’s money being diverted into private pockets had been a nagging issue even before the inauguration of the Omokhodion-led Governing Council by the Visitor to the University in 2018. The Omokhodion-led Governing Council made modest and concerted effort as contained in its due diligent report in what turned out to be unprecedented mind-blogging revelations of humongous sums of University’s money allegedly diverted by the Administration of the then Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Ignatius Onimawo in collaboration with two of his personal assistants. “In that report “the Council discovered that N350 million of AAU funds was transferred from its various bank accounts/revenue units between October 2016 and December 2018 into the private bank accounts of two personal assistants to the VC, namely, Christopher Omo-Iribhogbe and Eugene Eraikhuemen,” a practice which the Chairman of the Council, claimed is a violation of the University’s financial regulations.” “The Zenith Bank account numbers of the two personal assistants are known and the full investigative report is available at AAU and has been with the Government. It was clearly established in the report that the large sums transferred into the private accounts of the VC’s personal assistants were subsequently paid to the VC, his wife and children. “There is also the report that the Council found the VC guilty at the conclusion of its investigations.  The report also had it that the “Council discovered that AAU Consult Limited had outstanding receivables of N120 million and owed the University N70 million in advances but no University staff knew from where the receivables could be collected and informed the state government that his Council suspected foul play. “In addition, the “Council discovered that a credit balance of N75 million in the liquidated Allstates Trust Bank in favour of AAU and held in the NDIC records had been collected by certain individuals in the University and raised the alarm that the Council appointed auditors were forced to abandon their search for the truth. “The state government cannot claim ignorance that the Staff Audit exercise authorized by the Omokhodion-led Council found cases of unknown staff and falsification of records in the files of both academic and non-teaching staff. The Union has confirmed that efforts to discipline the culprits were crippled by certain government officials. The Union would like to most respectfully ask the Visitor to the University if, prior to report of the SIT under reference, he was not informed via reports by Omokhodion-led Council that: (i) Council found the financial management practices of the former VC and Bursar very strange and opaque. The Bursar was questioned for paying AAU monies into the private accounts of VC’s personal assistants and he claimed the VC approved the practice. In this way the funds of the University were recklessly abused. The statements of the Zenith Bank Savings accounts of Christopher Omo-Iribhogbe and Eugene covering the period June 1, 2016 to May 10, 2021 should be tendered to see the actual amounts of AAU funds transferred into their accounts; (ii) The financial resources inherent in AAU are immense and an estimate annual internally generated revenue of over N5.5 billion exclusive of government subvention is huge. Council was determined to monitor these funds but VC used his contacts in government to frustrate the efforts. (iii) Council discovered anomalies in the number of AAU staff. Over 200 staff names not on the University payroll received emoluments as approved by the VC but Council was not allowed to conclude its investigations. (iv) In the years of 2018/2019, 2020/2021 the acceptance fees paid by new students alone was not less than N1.95 billion naira. Some government officials and the VC frustrated Council choice of independent external auditors.They feared that their hidden transactions would be exposed by the skilled audit team of Messrs. Patrick Oshiobugie and Co. (v) Council was concerned about the handling of students’ grades by the ICT directorate. Council approved the recommendations of the ICT service provider that the exam results of students should be uploaded directly into the University portal by the respective lecturers after the departmental and faculty boards had approved the results. This was to avoid the past corrupt practice where all students’ marks were first sent to the ICT director, who would then review the results before posting them on the University portal. “The ICT director used this scheme to enrich himself and his co-lecturers while corrupting the quality of the grades and killing academic standards. (vi) Council also had a running battle with the management over the actual number of university students. The figures from the Registrar’s office never tallied with the figures from the ICT. Students’ number always varied between 34,000 and 37,000 students. “The explanation was that many who called themselves students did not register for courses or paid tuition fees. Council then resolved that students’ class registration and payment of tuition fees must be simultaneously done and a print-out must be generated to so confirm a successful operation. “It is necessary to monitor this system. The past VC was indifferent. “The Union can go on and on. Suffice it to state that Mr. Austin Osakue, who is today a member of the present SIT was in the Omokhodion-led Governing Council. “At present, Mr. Osakue is well-known, in and outside the university community, as the de facto Chairman of SIT, having relegated Mr. Andrew Olotu, to a background of irrelevance in decisions and policies of SIT in the University. “If not, why on earth should he be the one to present the interim report to the Visitor to the University, while Mr. Olotu, the Chairman, sat as a spectator watching the presentation.  It is absurd for Mr. Osakue and the SIT to be pretending and deceiving the public with a report of a novel discovery of massive corrupt practices in AAU, Ekpoma”“There has also been a pending report of the Visitation Panel to the University in 2020 and the Due Diligence Report. Why has Government not acted on the reports of various probe committees and the Visitation Panel report pending before it? “Rather the Visitor to the University and Edo State Government went ahead to dissolve the Omokhodion-led Council and set up SIT, with Austin Osakue, who was an active member of the Council as member. “What was the justifying reason of appointing Mr. Osakue as a member of SIT? Ridiculously, Mr. Osakue has remained the defector Chairman of SIT since its constitution. “The state government and the SIT have the powers in the relevant laws of the University to deal with corrupt practices. How many of the infractions in these reports have been punished by the state government in accordance with due process? “The Union expected the report to name the staff that have been sanctioned for corrupt practices during the period under review. “It is in the public domain how the immediate VC, Prof. Onimawo in his address to staff in front of the University’s administration block on his last day in the university boasted of his special relationship with the Governor and Visitor to the University, Mr. G. O. Obaseki and the confidence that the government had on him and hence waited for him to complete his tenure. “The Union finds it difficult to believe that the inaction of the State Government on the reports of sundry corrupt practices in the University before it, and the refusal of Government to release and issue white paper on the report of the Special Visitation Panel to the University in 2020 set-up by it is not contrary to the statement credited to the Visitor to the University that the state government has the political will to deal with corruption in the University. “The Union encourages the State Government to make good its avowed commitment to repositioning the University by dealing with all previous and present cases of corrupt practices and infractions on the regulations, rules and laws of the University. Otherwise, the State Government should be blamed and held responsible for the continuing reign of corrupt practices in the institution. “The Union is bemused by the SIT’s claim of “massive certificate and transcript racketeering and other nefarious acts in the institution. “One would have expected the SIT to inform the Visitor to the University and the public the identities of staff prosecuted for it in line with the University’s rules and regulations.“In any case, are lecturers involved in the issuance of certificates in the University and how can they be said to be involved in certificate racketeering? “Is it Lecturers that buy diesel for the operation of electricity for the University or people in the Administration who are government appointees? “Who are the persons involved and why did the SIT not name the staff involved and put them on trial? “The mere vague allegation of massive certificate and transcript racketeering and other nefarious acts in the institution is a ploy to mislead and divert the attention of the public from the real problems of the University which this SIT has evidently compounded. It has also revealed its incompetence and lack of capacity in dealing with the lingering problems in the University. “The Union views the claim that “AAU receives more salaries compared to UNIBEN staff and they never pay taxes” as laughable and a desperate attempt to justify the unilateral, illegal and unjust alteration of the Consolidated University Academic Salary Structure (CONUASS) in the University by SIT. “It confirms SIT’s depth of ignorance on the workings of a University in relation to what makes up the salary of academic staff in public universities in Nigeria. “The University System in Nigeria is one, particularly in respect to the salary structure of workers. Being a public university like UNIBEN, AAU, Ekpoma is guided by the centrally approved salary structure of CONUASS in the payment of salaries/wages of academic staff. “There are allowances, like responsibility allowance and excess workload, which are not normally computed with the monthly salaries of academic staff in some universities. “For example, in some universities excess work load allowance is separately paid, that is, it is not computed with the monthly salary of academic staff. “UNIBEN for now is in this category like many other federal universities where such allowances have not been mainstreamed into salaries for now. “In AAU, Ekpoma some of these allowances have been mainstreamed into salaries. In UNIBEN, excess workload is paid outside salaries.“It is, therefore, erroneous to claim that “AAU receives more salaries compared to UNIBEN staff”.  Instead of conducting due diligence and proper investigation to know the relevant details of the computation of salary of academic staff in AAU, Ekpoma vis-à-vis other universities, the SIT went to town to expose its ignorance that AAU workers earn more than UNIBEN staff. “The SIT didn’t have the intelligence to go to DELSU and RUST that are state-owned universities to find out what they are earning as salaries. In addition, AAU, Ekpoma has always defaulted in the payment of several allowances, which makes payment of arrears inevitable. “It is also far from the truth that “we never pay taxes in the university”. What is obtainable in the University is that taxes are deducted at source of payment of salaries. There is no escape route for any staff because the tax due against each member of staff must be deducted by the University Administration before effecting the payment of salaries to workers. The workers’ pay slips are available to put a lie to the erroneous claim by the SIT about non-payment of taxes by workers in the University. If workers in the University never pay taxes, it sounds contradictory to claim that a N2 billion was owed the Edo State Government from the tax that was never remitted to the state government. “If after the deduction of tax from the workers it is not remitted to the state government, it is a different thing all together. It should not be taken that workers are not paying tax in the University. “It is just the same way the University Administration had been involved in the deduction of Unions’ check-off dues and sundry deductions from salaries of workers without remitting it to the appropriate bodies. “The University is presently in default of payment of more than 2 billion naira of arrears of trade unions’ check-off dues, cooperative savings and other deductions in the University. “It is interesting to note the ease in which the SIT brought in UNIBEN in comparison with AAU, Ekpoma in relation to salaries/wages. One would have expected the SIT’s report to also compare with UNIBEN, if selective payment of salaries is obtainable in UNIBEN as presently the situation in AAU, Ekpoma”, the union further declared.