ABUJA  – The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) on Saturday disclosed that it has put in place stringent measures to prevent those elect­ed on its platform from defecting to other political parties. It also revealed that only those who have been with it for long won tickets into elective offices, as it ensured that no politician who defected from another party into the NNPP won its ticket into office. Spokesman of the party, Agbo Major, told journalists on Saturday in Abuja that the party’s strategy to retain those elected on its platform is to “op­erate transparently, to ensure ac­countability, and to ensure that the sense of belonging is there for all of them, they are part of us, they’re comfortable where they are, and our programme guides them in what they’re do­ing. And that the downtrodden have access to them.” He also pointed out that the chance of anybody leaving after winning an election on the NNPP platform is reduced to zero. He also defended alleged meetings between the leader of the party, Senator Rabiu Kwank­waso, and leaders of other polit­ical parties, as he allayed fears that the former Kano State gov­ernor has plans of dumping the party soon. Agbo charged governments at all levels to give priority to the se­curity and welfare of Nigerians, adding that there would be no development without adequate security of life and property. The party also urged “secu­rity agents to be alive to their constitutional duties and crush terrorism, insurgency, militancy, banditry, armed robbery and kid­napping in the country.” The party added that this is in tandem with Section 14 (2) b of the 1999 Constitution, as amend­ed, adding that the section pro­vides that the security and wel­fare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. POLL The party explained that “Thousands of fellow compa­triots have been killed, wound­ed and abducted, and millions displaced from their homes in recent times. It is a sad commen­tary on our frail democracy. The people want dividends of democracy, not carnage. It starts with progressive, purposeful and visionary leadership as the peo­ple of Kano State will witness in the NNPP government of Engr. Abba Kabir Yusuf.” NNPP stressed that the people of Kano State “are the first citi­zens to usher in a new Nigeria we all desire and deserve” following what it described as the historic, epochal, remarkable and memo­rable victory recorded by its can­didate in the last gubernatorial election in the state. “It is a new dawn, a new beginning and the start of a progressive, people-oriented, purposeful and visionary gov­ernance that will transform the lives of the people in line with the manifesto, mission, vision and ideology of our great party, NNPP, to make Nigeria a land of justice, freedom and equal opportunities where all citi­zens are at liberty to aspire to achieve their lifetime goals and ambitions; a land to live in peace, prosperity and happiness.