The days preceding the May 29 inauguration of pres­ident-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, have proved to be more apprehensive for Nigerians than even the pre-election days. The atmosphere then was intense, now it is tense. Every word uttered out of place now has the potential to set off an infinite chain of alarms. Indeed, Nigeria has seen many provocative seasons but none, in my reckoning, has been as profound as this since 1979. From scary rumours of planned subversion authored by state authorities to speculations about anti-democratic uprisings by opposition forces. The closer we move to the transition point, the more absurd the alarms become. Nonetheless, the military has as­sured the entire nation that there is no cause for alarm, so the bell-ring­ers should try give themselves some peace. One of the most disturbing of recent political clamours is the op­position to the swearing-in of the president-elect while legal disputes over the February 25 presidential election are pending. As recently as last week, the highly respected Archbishop of the Abuja Catholic Archdiocese, John Onaiyekan, ar­gued that it did not “make sense” to swear in president-elect, Ahmed Tinubu, at this point. The statement was a little surprising to many Ni­gerians because it is a well-known fact that election disputes had nev­er stopped the swearing-in of polit­ical office holders in Nigeria. But his opinion was just one more but weighty support for a cavalcade of that disposition. And some people have wondered where those hold­ing this opinion have been all these years when disputed election benefi­ciaries, from Olusegun Obasanjo to Muhammadu Buhari, were inaugu­rated while the cases challenging the integrity of the election that brought them to power were still being adju­dicated upon. Truth is, it has never been a pop­ular or acceptable practice to swear in the winner of a disputed election wherever it has been done. The only defence for that practice is that wait­ing for the outcome of election cases would upset the political calendar. Nevertheless, almost everybody would agree that it makes more sense to, indeed, settle all outstand­ing electoral queries before going ahead, in good faith, to emplace a new government. So, as it has turned out, the per­sonality of the electoral process this year has been quite different, actual­ly phenomenal. The tempo and di­mension had taken almost everyone by surprise with the involvement of the hitherto ‘uninterested’ or ‘disin­terested’ but wide-and-wild segment of the Nigerian youth population. Thus, issues taken for granted in the past are now being interrogat­ed. This is one way of looking at the emergence of the opposition to Tinu­bu’s swearing-in. It’s a departure, yes, albeit in consonance with other departures we have seen this season. Unfortunately, marabout-mongers think some subversion is cooking. When people refuse to accept poli­tics as a product of social forces they stand the risk of misapprehending its capabilities. All conspiracy theo­ries and their activators must give way to the reality and acceptance of emerging dynamics dictating politi­cal directions in the country. Anoth­er thing to ask is, is the argument of the opposition worth any reflection? Now, to be sure, the nay-sayers believe that the court cases con­cerning the presidential election should be properly considered and a final verdict given, most likely by the Supreme Court ultimately, be­fore the swearing-in is done. This should, indeed, be the ideal, where there is adequate timeline for the court to complete its work and where parties involved and the judges are determined to conclude the suits within that time frame. But, unfor­tunately, as we have seen in previous post-election contentions, the cases go right through a remarkable part of the new government’s tenure. In the past, some state governors spent only half of their tenure in office in the rare instances where the courts upended a stolen mandate. The ben­eficiaries of such cases soon realized that the victory was very lean, and they had to join the new circle of elections after spending barely two years in office. This was the case un­til June, 2007, when Peter Obi, then governor of Anambra State, got a court judgement confirming that his tenure began when he took the oath of office and would last four years as provided for by the constitution, irrespective of the commencement of the national round of elections. That court ruling inaugurated the era of scattered elections which have seen Anambra, Ekiti, Ondo, Bayelsa, Imo and Edo states conducting gov­ernorship elections off season. Now, the advantage of that rul­ing is that beneficiaries of election petitions can now enjoy the full benefits of court judgments. But the disadvantage is that it disrupts the normal circle and creates addi­tional burden for the electoral body and other stakeholders. Today, in the states already affected, the state and national assembly elections are not conducted in the same season as the governorship. Thus, the leg­islature does not begin its life the same time as the executive arm of government, whereas both arms are supposed to jointly inaugurate a new government. There is a certain awkwardness in the arrangement even though this appears not to have materially affected the quality of governance in the affected states. At any rate, the off-season elections have now become a major feature of our electoral system. And it is working quite all right because only a few states are affected but it won’t be as palatable as it is at present if the presidential election falls into that off-season awkwardness. This is where proponents of the call for ju­dicial perfection of elections before inauguration of a new government make sense. In the present case, suppose the political parties that have gone to court to challenge the official out­come of the February 25 presidential election succeed in getting the court to order a re-run in some parts of the country and this significantly affects the existing profile of results, the ef­fects of a sudden change of guard at the topmost level of governance will be too disruptive than many of us think. Also, there is that other possi­bility which opposition forces fear but don’t often canvass, and that is that – admit it or not – in our flawed legal system, once a government is a party to a case, especially where its existence is being challenged, that government is likely to enjoy some advantage over the other parties in the tainted temple of justice of our time. POLL Aside the fact that the govern­ment enjoys the privilege to dispense patronage, there is a jurisprudential escape route for the presiding judg­es to rule that what is significant should not be sacrificed for what is insignificant. This is the plea against upsetting the applecart, especially where the judges are desirous of con­sidering the outcome of their judge­ment and not as much the material elements or particulars of the case. For instance, one cannot rule out na­tionwide disturbances of unquan­tifiable proportions where a court unseats a federal government. Fear of a grave or cataclysmic outcome of a radical judgement could temper the court’s considerations and deci­sions. In our intemperate political space, this is a strong likelihood and only fools would dismiss this conjec­ture. It is easier to rule that certain actions be done, like fresh elections be conducted (with all its damning consequencies in the case of a na­tional election), when none of the parties to that case is yet in power. This reasoning does not require any special gift. Having said this much, I wish to add that although the opposition will inevitably fail in its insistence to stop the inauguration, it is well that it is making its point. Their labour is for another day, and if all it achieves at present is a sensitization of the pub­lic to an existing flaw in the demo­cratic process, it is worthwhile. I Will Be President One more thing. There has been much furore over a recent statement by Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party and major con­tender for the nation’s topmost job. In another ecstatic moment on Fri­day, he had declared that he ‘must’ be president of Nigeria. Obi stated this in Awka, the Anambra State capital, at the pre­sentation of a book entitled, Peter Obi: Many Voices, One Perspective. He said: “I’m in this journey. Anyone that thinks I’m on transit is joking. I must be the president of this country. If it’s not today, it will be tomorrow. I’m not in a hurry. I’m not desperate.” He added: “I’m in court now, what­ever (is the) decision of the court, I’ll respect it. I’m not going to riot after which we’ll continue. But I know we’re committed to the destiny of this nation; when it’s God’s time, it will happen.” Some critics have detected des­peration in that statement but be­fore anyone goes further, it’s worth pointing out that he has already re­pudiated that speculation: the most relevant line, for me, is this: “I’m not in a hurry; I’m not desperate.” Therefore, the ‘must’ in “I must be the president of this country” should appropriately be read as an indication of conviction, a determi­nation to be. Of course, one of the meanings of ‘must’ in English gram­mar is a strong possibility or likeli­hood and, given the overwhelming support he gets at every event, it is only natural for him to believe that he will be president someday. That’s my take.