BENIN  – The Forum of Former Students’ Union Leaders (FOFSUL) of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma in Edo State has criticized the re­cent hike in the tuition fees of the institution. The Forum also con­demned the operations of the Special Intervention Team (SIT) which it said had put the school in reverse gear. The National President of the Forum, Comrade Ifijen Isaac in a statement said, the members share the burden placed on the students and called on the Visitor of the University, Governor God­win Obaseki to reverse the decisions. According to the state­ment, “Our attention has been drawn to the trending publication of the incre­ment of the tuition fee with over 300% for 100 level, direct entry and returning students of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma. “We wish to state clearly that we condemn this in all its forms, as it is anti-people and anti-developmental. “Before the coming of the Special Intervention Team, it would appear that the Uni­versity was on the path of growth, but with their com­ing, all that has changed, as the university has become a shadow of itself. The Forum of Former Students’ Union Leaders re­ject the increment in fees and wishes to use this medium to tell the students of the school that FOFSUL which is made up of all former students’ union leaders is with them and ready to join forces in correcting this abominable act by the Special Intervention Team.” The statement further stated that the goals of tertia­ry education as stipulated in the Nigeria Education Policy document (1981:7) have been defeated by the policies of the current administration. POLL “As it stands, Edo State is not an industrial hub nor is it an institution of interna­tional standard (not even the first two thousand on global ranking) that would war­rant such an astronomical increase. “There has been specula­tion about the state govern­ment’s plan to close down the citadel of learning. “This plan and subse­quent implementation has now become glaring with the latest development. Since the dissolution of the duly constituted Governing Council by the visitor to the university and the Governor of Edo State, the educational standard of the school has dropped to its lowest in de­cades.”