AWKA  – The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo, has urged wealthy Anambra people to strive to be celebrated with good works in their name while alive. Soludo spoke at the weekend while commissioning a 250-bed capacity female hostel and several projects in Community High School Akwaeze, in Anaocha Local Government Area. The project was built and donated by Chief Ikenna Okafor, the founder of Nzekwuabuo Foundation. Among other projects, the Governor also laid the foundation stone for the male hostel and inspected the equipped science laboratories, an E-library, a multi-purpose hall, an ICT hub, and a 60 KVA diesel-powered generator donated by the foundation. Speaking shortly after performing the function, Governor Soludo commended Chief Okafor for the great  initiatives describing him as a great son of the soil, who is not only a blessing to the people of Akwaeze but to Anambra as a whole. The governor said: “We have come to celebrate you while you are still alive, because you are living a life with purpose. “You are giving back to the people all of the resources and wisdom that God has blessed you with.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I use Ide Akwaeze as a point of contact to reach out to other great ndi Anambra.” More than 75% of our non-land assets are domiciled outside of the state. We have made the conscious decision to build our homeland in order for it to be livable and prosperous”. POLL “Anywhere you live outside of the state, you are an economic refugee, and this is one of the reasons I ran for Governor of this state.” “I have been encouraging Great men and women of ndi Anambra to return to their village and adopt a school since 2010.” Governor Soludo further praised him for his philanthropic efforts, including his works at Peter University, Achina, saying:“You are giving back to the people all of the resources and wisdom that God has blessed you with.” “I use Ide Akwaeze as a point of contact to reach out to other great ndi Anambra.” More than 75% of our non-land assets are domiciled outside of the state. We have made the conscious decision to build our homeland in order for it to be livable and prosperous”. “Anywhere you live outside of the state, you are an economic refugee, and this is one of the reasons I ran for Governor of this state.” Soludo said that he has been encouraging Great men and women of ndi Anambra to return to their village and adopt a school since 2010. To put his words into action, he said, he went to his village and adopted a primary school, providing free and high-quality education while paying the teachers’ salaries, which has been a rewarding experience for me. I’ve been doing this for over twelve years,” Soludo stated. That shows, he continued what Okafor has done was long-lasting and that he no idea how many destinies he had changed by the children being molded. “You never know what will become your legacy, but the seeds you plant today will bear fruit tomorrow.“Education is the foundation of everything,” said Governor Soludo. The Governor encouraged Ide Akwaeze to do more because God isn’t tired of blessing him and advised him to establish an endowment fund for his foundation so that his good works will outlive him and his generation.He urged other well-meaning ndi Anambra to imbibe what Ide Akweze is doing. In his address, Chief Okafor stated that the Students’ Hostel building was handed over to Anambra State Government in continuation of his foundation’s goal of having modern schools, beginning with primary and secondary education. According to him, one of his special interests is education, which he believes is the best gift anyone can give to the youth because it liberates people from mental slavery. Chief Okafor disclosed that additional computers and books will be provided to Community High School Akwaeze and donated a vehicle to Anaocha Security Group.In their separate speeches, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Afam Obidike and the Chairman,  Anaocha Local Government, Hon. Gerald