LAGOS  – FCMB Group Plc has rewarded its shareholders with N5.0 billion as dividend on their investment for the financial year ended December 31, 2022, following shareholders’ approval at the group’s 10th Annual General Meeting held physically and virtually in Lagos. The shareholders also commended FCMB Group’s impressive performance in 2022, which saw a 61 per cent growth in Profit Before Tax (PBT) to N36.6 billion. They unanimously approved a dividend payout of 25 kobo per ordinary share for the year ended December 31, 2022, as against 20 kobo per share the previous year. FCMB Group delivered double-digit growth across all business segments in 2022, with the banking group growing by 71.7 per cent, while the consumer finance, investment management and investment banking segments grew by 25.6 per cent, 45.7 per cent and 26.7 per cent, respectively. The Group’s stellar financial results showed a 33.5 per cent growth in gross revenue to N283 billion from N212 billion the previous year. Customer deposits rose 25.1 per cent to N1.94 trillion in December 2022 from N1.55 trillion the previous year, while loans and advances witnessed a 12.4 per cent surge to N1.20 trillion as against N1.06 trillion in 2021. Presenting the report for the year ended December 31, 2022, the Chairman of FCMB Group, Mr. Ladi Jadesimi, said despite the challenges of the business environment, the Group demonstrated resilience and continued to move forward on the path of good governance by strengthening and improving its corporate governance structure. He said the group successfully aligned its long-term strategy with the highest international standards to increase the confidence of shareholders, investors and other stakeholders in an environment that is demanding even more transparency. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mr. Jadesimi said: “As a Group, our purpose is to foster inclusive and sustainable growth in the communities we serve. Financial Institutions remain key to economic prosperity —supporting small businesses, revitalizing communities, fostering employability and building wealth for individuals and families’’. POLL Mr Ladi Balogun, Group Chief Executive, FCMB Group Plc, while speaking, said the group has remained focused on building a resilient and supportive organization by leveraging the professionalism of its staff and the resilience of all its operating companies to deliver a strong operating performance. He said: “During the year, we continued to invest massively in new technologies and digital solutions to ensure convenience, speed and safety of transactions. This was evident in the traction recorded across our digital platforms. We onboarded an additional 1.5 million mobile users contributing to a 23 per cent growth in mobile-enabled transactions as we grew our digital customer base to 9.1 million as at December 2022.”