Lionel Messi’s possible return to FC Barcelona in the summer transfer window has generated a lot of excitement and enthusiasm among the fans. It has been witnessed in the club’s recent home games as supporters have chanted the Argentine’s name in the tenth minute. While things are said to be going well with regard to Barça’s attempts to bring back their former captain, until and unless La Liga approves their economic viability plan, a move cannot be finalised. Amidst this, AS is reporting that Barcelona president Joan Laporta likes Celta Vigo midfield prodigy Gabri Veiga, who could be an option for the club this summer, if Messi’s return does not materialise. Veiga, 20, is enjoying a fine breakthrough campaign with Celta Vigo, racking up nine goals and four assists from 29 La Liga appearances thus far in 2022/23. The young midfielder’s performances have not gone unnoticed as clubs like Liverpool, Manchester City, Manchester United, and Bayern Munich are all interested. Along with them, reigning Spanish and European champions Real Madrid are also keen on signing Veiga. Now, though, Barcelona have also entered the picture as a possible suitor for the Spaniard, who has a €40 million release clause in his contract with the Galician outfit. Veiga has recently parted ways with his former representatives and is said to be close to joining hands with super-agent Pini Zahavi, who has a good relationship with Barça, having facilitated the signing of Robert Lewandowski last year.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ However, the Blaugrana’s move for the midfielder would be dependent on two factors – firstly, an operation will only be considered if Messi’s return does not come to fruition and secondly, their Financial Fair Play situation needs to be resolved. POLL According to various reports, Xavi is planning to use Messi as an advanced midfielder in his team should the Argentine indeed return. And Veiga could be able to fit into such a role. However, given the interest from Real Madrid and other English giants, coupled with Celta Vigo’s insistence on his €40 million release clause being paid in full, the move could be difficult for the La Liga leaders.